Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/computational-media-design-phd

Computational Media Design
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Are you a creative thinker with a passion for art and technology? Do you refuse to be bound by convention? Computational Media Design is a leading-edge program designed for students innovating at the intersection of art, music, dance, drama, design and computer science. This research-based degree is offered jointly through the Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Science; School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape; and Department of Art, Department of English, and School of Creative and Performing Arts, Faculty of Arts.  In the expanding world of multimedia and design, there is an increasing need for graduates who are equipped to handle complex projects that combine computing expertise with the creative energies of artists and designers. The CMD program prepares students to answer this emerging need. Admission is highly competitive, and only the most promising applicants are selected.
Completing this program
Research Methodology Course:
This course can be from Architecture, Planning and Landscape, Computer Science, Art, Dance, Drama, English or Music.
Additional Courses:
Two graduate-level courses from Architecture, Planning and Landscape, Art, Dance, Drama, English and/or Music and three additional graduate-level courses.
Research / Body of Work:
The student will prepare original research and/or a creative practice body of work, appropriately scoped for a PhD.
Computer Science:
Two Computer Science graduate-level courses.
Candidacy:
Candidacy requires preparation of an approved reading list, a research proposal and both oral and written exams.
Thesis:
Students are required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specialization
Wearable Technology (see Interdisciplinary Specializations)
Outcomes
Game design and development, film, TV, web design, simulation, training, networking, interactive media, public displays, and mobile and wearable computing, dance, music, theatre and the visual arts. Academic careers as post doctoral fellow, lecturer, professor or researcher.
A PhD in computational media design is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Eight courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
Co-Supervision is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Usman Alim
Accepting Inquiries
Visualization and Computer Graphics
John Aycock
Accepting Inquiries
Systems
Bruce Barton
Accepting Inquiries
Mario Costa Sousa
Accepting Inquiries
Interactive Computer Graphics and Visualization
Patrick Finn
Accepting Inquiries
Performance, Technology, Drama & Story, Area Studies (English and Drama), Research Methods & Media, Scholarship of Teaching and Learning / Collaboration, Creativity
Pil Hansen
Accepting Inquiries
Performing Arts Psychology, Dramaturgy, Performance Generating Systems and Improvisation, Interdisciplinary Research Methodology, Performing Arts Management
Helen Ai He
Unavailable
Social Computing, Inclusive Design
Gerald Hushlak
Accepting Inquiries
Digital Art, Painting
Christian Jacob
Accepting Inquiries
Data Science with Virtual and Augmented Reality, Simulations of Biological Systems using Game Engines, LINDSAY Virtual Human
Thomas P,  (Tom) Keenan
Accepting Inquiries
Social Implications of Technology, Privacy and Security, Smart Communities, Technocreepiness, Cybersecurity and Cyberwarfare, Non-financial Applications of the Blockchain
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A master's degree from a recognized institution.
Work samples
A portfolio of up to 10 examples of research and creative work. Any combination of academic publications/reports, images, video, audio, musical scores, documentation of installations, written works. URL can be provided if upload isn't possible via application system.
Documents
One-page statement of interest (not a research proposal) in an area of interdisciplinary research of computer science alongside art, dance, drama, design, or music
A C.V.
Reference letters
Two reference letters
Test scores
None
Additional requirements
Applicants must show a demonstrated interest in interdisciplinary research in art, dance, drama, design or music and computer science.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
FALL (For admission on September 1)
INTERNATIONAL
:
Early Applications (complete application review) -
January 15
Final Application Deadline –
March 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
March 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
May 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
June 1
)
WINTER (For admission on January 1)
INTERNATIONAL
:
Final Application Deadline –
July 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
July 15
)
CANADIAN
:
Final Application Deadline –
September 1
(Final Documentation Submission Deadline –
October 1
)
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Computational Media Design
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) 602
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 4V8
403.220.3528
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
Visit their website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based PhD
Architecture
Course-based March
Art
Thesis-based MFA
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Drama
Thesis-based MFA
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Music
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MMus
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary