Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/counselling-psychology-msc-thesis

Counselling Psychology
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This specialized thesis-based degree is designed to help students develop the philosophical, theoretical, research, and practical expertise required to offer effective psychological education and counselling.
The program offers you the opportunity to study diverse topics of particular interest to counsellors, such as: interpersonal communication, lifespan human development, family functioning, career assessment and evaluation, and statistics and research design.
The program follows a scientist-practitioner model of training and is delivered on-campus only. And our graduates have gone on to have rewarding careers in schools, post-secondary institutions, community agencies, hospitals, and in private practice.
Completing this program
Research Courses:
Topics include research design in statistics, qualitative research methodologies, multivariate design and analysis and more.
Specialization Courses:
Courses include Relationship Counselling and Counselling Interventions.
Practicum Courses:
Two counselling practicum courses in a supervised counselling setting.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Research, not-for-profit organizations, community agencies, post-secondary institutions, hospitals, counsellors, private practice settings, intercultural communication, culture studies, curricular consultant, public and private education systems, community and non-governmental agencies.
A master’s of science degree in counselling psychology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
14 courses including practicum courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
José Domene
Accepting Inquiries
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Normally, a minimum of 24 units (4.0 full-course equivalents) in Educational Psychology and/or Psychology. This must include: One undergraduate statistics courses (Note: For those who completed a psychology degree at the University of Calgary, Psychology 312 acts as an equivalent); A senior undergraduate psychology or educational psychology course in the area of Communication Skills in Guidance and Counselling, or its equivalent, Working Alliance; A senior undergraduate Psychology or Educational Psychology course in each of cognitive psychology/learning theory, social psychology, biological bases of behavior, and (d) psychology of the individual (e.g., abnormal psychology, developmental psychology, personality theory).
Work samples
None
Documents
A curriculum vitae
A concise rationale for the application (500 words or less)
A completed
Pre-Admissions Checklist
Reference letters
Two academic references, one of which must be from the undergraduate honours supervisor (if an honours degree was completed).
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Deadlines
For admission on August 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Psychology Program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Counselling Psychology
Course-based MC
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary