Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/data-science-and-analytics-mdsa-course

Data Science and Analytics
Master of Data Science and Analytics (MDSA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This degree prepares students for a career in the in-demand fields of data science and business analytics. The curriculum was developed collaboratively by the Faculty of Science, Haskayne School of Business, and Cumming School of Medicine to ensure that students are provided with a multidisciplinary education in data science and analytics that leverages the expertise of leading researchers and instructors at the university.
Students will learn the fundamental concepts and tools of data science and analytics, and refine their professional and leadership skills while developing and applying their technical knowledge and abilities. Students will be able to use concepts and tools across multiple contexts, industries, and sectors. Areas of specialization are available in either Data Science, Business Analytics, or Health Data Science and Biostatistics.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Working with Data and Visualization, Statistical Data Analysis, Statistical Modeling with Data, Big Data Management.
Four Courses in One Specialization Area:
Data Science, Business Analytics, or Health Data Science & Biostatistics
Integrated Topics in Data Science and Analytics Course
A Professional or Research Internship
Specializations
Business Analytics
Data Science
Financial and Energy Markets Data Modelling
Health Data Science and Biostatistics
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, business analysis, human resources, healthcare, marketing.
This degree will give students the ability to apply core concepts and tools of data thinking to their work in any industry. Data scientists analyze data from across a company, spot trends, and use business acumen to recommend problems to tackle and how to tackle them. These skills will be transferable to many sectors – business, retail, e-commerce, advertising, healthcare, etc.
A course-based degree is usually considered a final degree.
The Master of Data Science and Analytics is a continuous program with no scheduled break.
Course-based program
Four core courses, four specialization courses, one integrated topics course, and a research or professional internship.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion is 12 months; six years maximum
Supervisor
An Academic Coordinator is assigned to each cohort.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
4-year undergraduate degree from a recognized institution.
Successful completion of the following undergraduate courses, with at least a "B" grade or equivalent:
one course in computer programming;
one course in statistics or equivalent, and
one course in either calculus or linear algebra or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
If an applicant holds a Bachelor, Master, or PhD degree from an institution that instructs in English, the proof of English language proficiency required is waived.
If an applicant's previous post-secondary education was taught in a different language, proof of English Language Proficiency is required and may be fulfilled in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 86 with no section less than 20 (Internet-based).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 with no section less than 6.0 (Academic version).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 with no section less than 60.
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of B+ in each course.
Deadlines
Fall Admission
Application Start:
September 1
Deadline for International applicants:
March 1
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents
: This program is not open for direct entry. Students interested in this program can proceed through the laddered process, starting with the certificate. Please contact the program with any questions.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Data Science and Analytics Graduate Program
Science A 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Data Science and Analytics
Certificate, Data Science and Analytics
Diploma, Data Science and Analytics
Community Medicine
Course-based, MCM
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Management
DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Course-based MBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary