Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/data-science-and-analytics-diploma

Data Science and Analytics
Diploma
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Diploma in Data Science and Analytics offers students the opportunity to advance their careers and gain skills for the new digital economy. Designed for working professionals, the curriculum emphasizes collaboration, experiential learning and team building to solve data-driven challenges.
Students will learn interdisciplinary data collection and examination techniques, data visualization, statistical and computational analytics, presentation skills, and how to apply the fundamental core concepts, and tools of data thinking to their work in any industry or sector.
Students who complete the Graduate Diploma in Data Science and Analytics may receive laddering credit for the 24 units of coursework completed in the diploma program if they are subsequently accepted to the Master of Data Science and Analytics within five years of beginning the first credential in the laddering process.
Completing this program
Courses
: Students will take courses on data and visualization, statistical data analysis, statistical modelling with data, and big data management.
Specialization
: Students will take four courses in their chosen specialization.
Specializations
Business Analytics
Data Science
Financial and Energy Markets Data Modelling
Health Data Science and Biostatistics
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, business analysis, human resources, healthcare, marketing.
A diploma in Data Science and Analytics is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Eight courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Eight months, or four months for students laddering from the certificate program. Maximum completion time of three years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution. The successful completion of the following undergraduate courses: computer programming or computer science, statistics or equivalent, and calculus or linear algebra.
Work samples
None
Documents
Transcripts
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
Qualifications
In exceptional circumstances, individuals who do not meet formal academic requirements but who have significant life achievement may be considered for admission to this program. Such candidates may also be asked for an in-person interview with the Program Director. Please contact the program for details.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
Canadian/Permanent Residents:
This program is not open for direct entry. Students interested in this program can proceed through the laddered process, starting with the certificate. Please contact the program with any questions about this.
International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Data Science and Analytics Graduate Program
Science A 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Data Science and Analytics
Course-based Certificate
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Community Medicine
Course-based MCM
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Thesis-based PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary