Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/data-privacy

Data Privacy
Certificate
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
News stories about far-reaching, high-profile data breaches have become commonplace, pointing to a growing need for information security services. The Graduate Certificate in Data Privacy trains IT professionals to help meet that growing need.
Expand your skill set with training in identifying the legal and regulatory environment for developing standards and policies for data privacy and security. Learn how to assess privacy threats and solutions, and how to communicate this specialized knowledge to a broad range of audiences. Work with the University of Calgary’s leading researchers in cybersecurity, and gain breadth of knowledge from guest lecturers in the Faculties of Science and Law, as well as the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape.
This program has a yearly single intake starting in the Winter term.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will take four courses: private data management, privacy by design laboratory, policies and standards and programs; and choose one course from topics including applied cryptography or topics in privacy.
Outcomes
Technology sector, system administrator, computer science research, instructor, educator, business analysis, security, IT, loss prevention, employment, advancement, career change, law enforcement, consulting.
A course-based certificate in Data Privacy is usually considered a final degree
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
4, 8, 10 or 12 months, depending on the schedule set per cohort. The maximum time allowed is three years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution in Computer Science. If the baccalaureate is not in Computer Science, the candidate must have successfully completed an undergraduate course in each of the following areas: computer programming with understanding of execution environments, algorithms and data structures, and either operating systems or computer networks.
Work samples
None
Documents
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
Alternate routes to admission
Individuals who do not meet formal academic requirements but who have significant life achievement may be considered for admission to this program. The candidate must provide the Information Security Program Director with evidence demonstrating the potential to successfully undertake this certificate program. Such candidates may also be required to participate in an in-person interview with the Program Director and be required to take additional courses to meet completion requirements.
Students who successfully complete one of the post-baccalaureate certificate programs, and who then apply to the other post-baccalaureate certificate program within 5 years of completing the first certificate, will not be required to submit reference letters or transcripts.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadline
Winter Admission
Application start:
June 30
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents
: September 15
Deadline for International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
Information Security Graduate Certificate Program
Graduate Science Centre
SA 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.7495
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Network Security
Certificate
Software Security
Certificate
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary