Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/data-science-and-analytics-certificate

Data Science and Analytics
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Certificate in Fundamental Data Science and Analytics introduces students to the tools, techniques, and mindsets necessary to succeed in careers of the future and today’s data-driven world. Designed for working professionals, the curriculum emphasizes collaboration and team building to solve data-driven challenges. Students will learn data-collection and examination techniques, data visualization, statistical and computational analytics, and presentation skills.
Students will build skills that are transferrable across sectors such as business, retail, e-commerce, advertising, and healthcare.
Students who complete the Graduate Certificate in Fundamental Data Science and Analytics may receive laddering credit for the 12 units of coursework completed in the certificate program if they are subsequently accepted to the Graduate Diploma in Data Science and Analytics program within five years of completing the certificate.
Students may also choose to ladder from the Graduate Certificate in Fundamental Data Science and Analytics into the Master of Data Science and Analytics. Upon admission to the Master’s degree program, student may receive laddering credit for the 12 units of coursework completed in the Certificate program.
Completing this program
Courses
: Students will take courses on data and visualization, statistical data analysis, statistical modelling with data, and big data management.
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, business analysis, human resources, healthcare, marketing.
The Data Science and Analytics Certificate program will provide students with a graduate-level credential. Should students choose to continue their studies, the certificate will also count for credit toward the Data Science and Analytics Diploma program, where students may choose to specialize in business analytics, data science or health data science and biostatistics.
A course-based certificate in Data Science is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four months. Maximum completion time of three years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution. The successful completion of the following undergraduate courses: computer programming or computer science, statistics or equivalent, and calculus or linear algebra.
Work samples
None
Documents
Transcripts
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
Qualifications
In exceptional circumstances, individuals who do not meet formal academic requirements but who have significant life achievement may be considered for admission to this program. Such candidates may also be asked for an in-person interview with the Program Director. Please contact the program for details.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
Winter Admission
July 1:
Application start
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents:
November 1
Deadline for International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
Fall Admission
September 1:
Application start
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents:
June 15
Deadline for International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Data Science and Analytics Graduate Program
Science A 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Data Science and Analytics
Course-based Diploma
Course-based Diploma
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Community Medicine
Course-based MCM
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Thesis-based PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary