Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/designing-smart-and-secure-cities-certificate

Designing Smart and Secure Communities
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Program overview
PLEASE NOTE: APPLICATIONS ARE NOT CURRENTLY BEING ACCEPTED FOR THIS PROGRAM.
Making communities more intelligent and safer is an increasingly important issue as citizens expect ever increasing levels of “smartness” from all levels of government, while also feeling secure in their everyday lives. There is currently a great deal of controversy and subtlety in this area. Aggressive measures like video surveillance on every street corner may provide security, but at the expense of individual liberty. This would be antithetical to the goals of a smart community.
To address these issues, the Faculty of Environmental Design is launching a new graduate program that provides valuable theoretical and practical insights into how to be both safe and smart. It draw on substantial expertise within the University of Calgary, augmented by experts from sources including the Safe Design Council®.
Completing this program
Courses
: Students will complete three blocks along with a capstone project course, which will be delivered using blended learning.
Research Paper:
Students will be required to document their work in the capstone course and present it to the other participants.
Outcomes
Enhanced capabilities in both Smart and Secure Communities for practitioners, policy makers and consultants. The certificate will enhance the practice of professionals including architects, landscape architects, building designers, consultants and policy makers, and also, upon successful completion, confer the Accredited SAFE Design Professional™ certification.
A course-based certificate in Designing Smart and Secure Communities is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Normally completed in one calendar year
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
PLEASE NOTE: APPLICATIONS ARE NOT CURRENTLY BEING ACCEPTED FOR THIS PROGRAM.
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
Transcripts
A C.V.
Statement of interest (1,000 word max.)
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Feb. 1 application deadline
International students: Feb. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.66011
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Architecture
Course-based March
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law
Course-based Certificate
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary