Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/disability-and-community-studies-mdcs-course

Disability and Community Studies
Master of Disability and Community Studies (MDCS)
Course-based program
*Note: Program is not currently accepting applications
Program overview
Fostering leadership and innovation that improves the lives of people with disabilities is a key aim of the Disability and Community Studies program. It is designed for professionals from several disciplines and professions who have a minimum of three years of accumulated work/life/volunteer experience with disability, chronic illness, and other marginalized conditions. The course-based program aims to advance knowledge, policy, practice and partnerships in Community Rehabilitation. The program is part of Community Health Sciences, which focuses on the intersection between population, public health, research, and education to promote the study of health and disease.
NOTE: This program is currently not accepting students.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include Leadership and Innovation, Social Construction and Health Capacity and more.
Presentation:
Students will complete a capstone project/paper, presented publicly to their student cohort.
Outcomes
Policy analyst; researcher; academic; rehabilitation, case or respite worker; disability, behavioural or statistical consultant; recreation therapist; family outreach &amp; advocacy; learning resource teacher; clinical trials biostatistician; epidemiologist; data/survey analyst; statistical programmer; psychometrician; knowledge broker; knowledge translation, prevention, development or health promotion specialist; scientific or program director.
A course-based master’s degree in disability and community studies is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
12 courses; capstone project and paper required to complete the program.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available. Contact the program for more information.
Stacey Page
Unavailable
Research ethics, professional ethics, privacy, consent
Gregor Wolbring
Unavailable
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
An up-to-date C.V. or resume
A written statement and professional profile of past education and work experience
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Community Rehabilitation
Three years of experience in a field of practice in community rehabilitation.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
This program is currently not accepting students.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Community Health Sciences
Health Science Centre, Room G345C
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Communication and Media Studies
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Nursing
Course-based Cert
Course-based Diploma
Course-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
Thesis-based MN
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Social Work
Course-based Cert
Thesis-based MSW
Course-based MSW
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary