Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/doctor-nursing

Nursing
Doctor of Nursing (DN)
Thesis-based program
Applications open June 1 for January 2024
Program overview
The Doctor of Nursing program is aimed at developing nurse leaders and innovators with significant leadership experience (minimum of three years) for senior roles in health care and related organizations. Students will be provided with knowledge and skills to advance health systems by designing and implementing innovations and evaluating outcomes.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include principles of healthcare innovation, understanding the context in which innovation occurs, change management, implementation science, and use of technology in healthcare.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend a thesis focused on a real world problem.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Outcomes
The focus of this program is to prepare students for predominantly organizational leadership roles where they advance health systems through developing skills in systems innovation, program evaluation and quality assurance/quality improvement.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
7 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
Time commitment
Three years; maximum completion time is six years.
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Karen Benzies
Accepting Inquiries
Parent-Child Relationships, Early Childhood Development, Family Integrated Care, Welcome to Parenthood
Merilee (Meredith)  Brockway
Accepting Inquiries
Infant Feeding Trial, Patient Oriented-Research
Colleen Cuthbert
Accepting Inquiries
Health Services Research, Cancer Survivorship, Mixed Methods
Añiela dela Cruz
Accepting Inquiries
HIV Cascade of Care; Vulnerable Populations; Population Health Promotion; Social Determinants of Health
Tam Truong Donnelly
Accepting Inquiries
Health services research;  Women’s health; Multicultural/Cross-cultural health; Population health, health promotion and disease prevention; Mental health;  Cardiovascular health; Cancer prevention; Infectious diseases; Mix-methods (qualitative and quantitative) research
Andrew Estefan
Accepting Inquiries
Mental Health/Psychiatric Nursing, Gender, Sexuality, Sexual Orientation, Narrative Inquiry
Kathryn King-Shier
Accepting Inquiries
cardiovascular health, ethno-culture, gender, access to care, secondary prevention
Catherine Laing
Accepting Inquiries
Pediatric and adolescent oncology; psychosocial oncology
Nicole Letourneau
Accepting Inquiries
Vulnerable children, Social support, Parent-infant/child relationships, Maternal mental health, Domestic abuse, Family environmental effects on child development, Genetics and epigenetics
Candace Lind
Accepting Inquiries
Adolescent/youth health promotion
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum 3.0 GPA or better on a 4.0 point system is required.
Minimum education
A Master’s Degree in Nursing, Psychiatric Nursing or related fields, or an equivalent from a recognized institution. Applicants also need to have at least three years of healthcare or related organization experience in a mid-level to senior leadership role.
Work samples
A current resume/curriculum vitae with examples of the applicant’s written scholarly work such as publications, research reports, course assignments, etc.
Documents
A two-page personal statement outlining objectives, intent and commitment to the DN program.
Reference letters
Two reference letters, one academic and one professional.
Test scores
None
Supervision and Funding
A letter of commitment from the identified supervisor indicating willingness to provide supervision throughout the program of study.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on January 1:
Canadian and permanent resident
Applications open June 1.
September 1 application deadline. Document deadline September 15.
International Students
Applications open June 1.
September 1 application deadline. Document deadline September 15.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Doctor of Nursing (DN)
Faculty of Nursing
Professional Faculties (PF) 2260
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Nursing
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Nursing's Website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Nursing
Course-based Cert
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary