Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/doctor-design

Design
Doctor of Design (DDes)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Doctor of Design (DDes) creates a place for professionals to explore design solutions to major societal issues: the climate crisis, automation and digitization, social inequality and other challenges emerging in our urban environments.
The DDes is a terminal academic credential catering to mid-career professionals with at least five years' experience in architecture, landscape architecture, urban design and related disciplines. Graduates of the program will bring an enhanced skill set with valuable, fresh expertise to their disciplines and practices, ultimately benefiting their clients and society as a whole. The DDes credential will also prepare design professionals to explore opportunities teaching in a post-secondary program.
The DDes is designed to meet the needs of busy professionals interested in pursuing an academic credential without having to step away from their practices for extended periods. Students may carry on their professional activities while completing the program. Symposia are held over long weekends every spring and fall, giving students opportunities to engage with colleagues and a wide range of experts.
Applicants should apply early. Significant professional experience will be considered in lieu of a graduate academic degree.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Design practice research project, Contexts of design practice research and Strategies for design practice research.
Thesis research proposal:
Students must submit a written proposal describing the project and its relation to professional practice.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a Field of Study (FoS) oral exam.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Exhibition:
The thesis will be presented through a public exhibition along with an oral presentation and thesis defence.
Outcomes
Architecture, landscape architecture, urban design, government/civil service, municipalities, planning, research institutions, private practice.
A DDes in design is usually considered a terminal degree.
At a glance
Thesis-based program
Courses
Three required courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Blended delivery
Online and classroom delivery.
Time commitment
Three years full time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
For our thesis programs, we can only offer admission to applicants who we can match with a supervisor. We don’t require applicants have a confirmed supervisor upon application, however it’s strongly recommended to reach out to any professors whose research interests match yours. You will be asked to list the names of a few professors you feel are a good fit in your online application form.
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Enrica Dall'Ara
Accepting Inquiries
Landscape Architecture
Thomas P,  (Tom) Keenan
Accepting Inquiries
Social Implications of Technology, Privacy and Security, Smart Communities, Technocreepiness, Cybersecurity and Cyberwarfare, Non-financial Applications of the Blockchain
David Monteyne
Accepting Inquiries
architectural history, history of architecture, urban history, urban studies, environmental design theory
Alicia Nahmad Vazquez
Seeking Students
Computational Design, Robotic Fabrication, Human-Robot Collaboration, Machine Learning, Digital Design and Fabrication
Brian Sinclair
Accepting Inquiries
Mauricio Soto-Rubio
Accepting Inquiries
Joshua Taron
Accepting Inquiries
Sasha Tsenkova
Accepting Inquiries
housing policy and housing market performance, planning sustainable communities
Barry Wylant
Accepting Inquiries
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
An admission grade point average (GPA) above 3.50 on a four-point scale. In some circumstances, alternate means of demonstrating academic capacity will be accepted for mature applicants who have been away from academia for an extended period of time.
Minimum education
A professional design degree from an accredited school
Documents
All documents should be submitted in digital form (.PDF files), uploaded by the applicant to their Student Centre, following submission of their online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the application documents can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/ddes
.
Portfolio: A digital portfolio providing examples of or illustrating the applicant's design work, professional work, consulting reports, policy reviews, research, creative thinking, community action, planning products, or graphics and visual communication.
Research Statement Outlining the applicant's ability to conduct doctoral-level, creative, design practice-based research.
The research statement (max 2,500 words) should include:
the applicant's reasons for pursuing the DDes degree;
description of the area of practice the applicant is interested in and the opportunity or problem within that area that the applicant wants to explore;
a description of the researcher's professional background and how it prepares them to undertake their research;
a description of the potential impact of the proposed research.
The research statement will be used by the Admissions Committee to determine if adequate supervisory resources are available. In no case will a student be admitted if an appropriate supervisor is not expected to be available.
CV/Resume: A current copy of curriculum vitae (CV).
Professional experience
Minimum 7 years of professional experience in their discipline.
Additional requirements
Applicants are required to participate in a formal interview (either in person or online) with the Graduate Program Director or their designate.
Reference letters
Two
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 31 application deadline
International students: May 31 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.7131
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Architecture
Course-based March
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary