Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/drama-mfa-thesis

Drama
Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The MFA in Drama lives within the dynamic School of Creative and Performing Arts. Applicants can specialize in Design/Technical, Directing, Interdisciplinary Creation and Research, Playwriting, or Theatre Studies. In each of these areas, students receive expert instruction and supervision from some of Canada’s most recognized scholars, artists, and artist/scholars. Students enjoy high levels of agency within a carefully structured framework as they determine their individual program designs and thesis subjects. The program complements discipline-specific preparation with unique opportunities for interdisciplinary instruction and experience within the School. Graduate students often engage with our performance season and our festival of student work, which supports a wide range of audience relationships. Facilities include graduate student offices, design and costume shops, three thoroughly equipped and staffed theatre spaces (ranging from 150 through 500 seats), and a fourth studio theatre dedicated to faculty and graduate student research.
Completing this program
Core Course:
Methods in Theatre Research.
Thesis (Directing):
Consists of directing a full-length play and submission of a supporting paper.
Thesis (Playwriting):
Consists of a full-length play and a supporting paper.
Additional Courses:
Depending on the specialization, students take courses on directing, design/technical, playwriting and/or theatre studies.
Thesis (Design/Technical):
Consists of design of a full-length production in two of scenes, costume, light and/or sound, and a supporting paper.
Thesis (Interdisciplinary Creation and Research):
Consists of a creative process, its documentation, and written reflection upon the process.
Thesis (Theatre Studies):
Consists of a substantial scholarly research paper that may be informed by a creative performance project.
Specializations
Directing
Design/Technical
Interdisciplinary Creation and Research
Playwriting
Theatre Studies
Outcomes
Director, Playwright, Devisor, Interdisciplinary Performance or Mixed Media Creator, Speech Writer, Critic, Dramaturg, Literary or Arts manager, Public Servant, Scholar, Instructor, Artistic or Technical Director, Curator, Monologist, Solo Performer, Theatre, Exhibit or Event Designer, Scenographer.
A master’s degree in drama will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Courses
Six courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations
,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Peter Balkwill
Accepting Inquiries
Performance / Acting, Puppetry, Mask, Performance-Creation / Devising, Directing
Bruce Barton
Accepting Inquiries
Christine Brubaker
Accepting Inquiries
Directing, Classical & Contemporary Performance, Pedagogy and Rehearsal Culture
Penelope Farfan
Unavailable
Theatre Studies; Dramatic Literature; Theatre History; Interdisciplinary Modernist Studies; Women Playwrights; Feminist and Queer Theatre/Drama/Performance Studies
Patrick Finn
Accepting Inquiries
Performance, Technology, Drama & Story, Area Studies (English and Drama), Research Methods & Media, Scholarship of Teaching and Learning / Collaboration, Creativity
Pil Hansen
Accepting Inquiries
Performing Arts Psychology, Dramaturgy, Performance Generating Systems and Improvisation, Interdisciplinary Research Methodology, Performing Arts Management
Jane MacFarlane
Accepting Inquiries
Gender - Affirming Voice work, Acting Theory in a contemporary context
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Baccalaureate degree with a major emphasis in the study of drama, with study in the proposed area of specialization.
Work samples
Applicants to Design/Technical must provide a portfolio of drawings and design work. Applicants to Playwriting must provide a portfolio of creative writing. Applicants to Theatre Studies must provide samples of written work. Applicants to Directing must provide a portfolio including reviews, photographs, video clips, and similar materials related to productions they have directed.  Applicants to the Interdisciplinary Creation and Research specialization must submit a portfolio of original work and a writing sample.
Documents
A written application, including a biographical outline of studies and experiences in theatre; a statement of intent outlining proposed project
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Creative and Performing Arts
Craigie Hall CHD 100
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5422
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Art
Thesis-based MFA
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
English
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Music
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MMus
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary