Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/economics-phd

Economics
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This Economics PhD program is fast becoming one of the most sought-after in the country. Key to this growing reputation is the quality and diversity of our faculty and our research. Our researchers publish in leading academic journals, showcasing expertise in climate change, international trade, energy policy and more. Our curriculum is on par with leading economics graduate programs in Canada, but our smaller program size (accepting six to 12 applicants a year) means our students get a greater level of guidance and support from faculty members, unprecedented access to guest lecturers and experts, and more opportunities to pursue their research interests. The placement record of our recent PhDs is undeniable evidence of how strong this program has become.
Our department is committed to the sharing of fresh ideas, sponsoring conferences and workshops, a weekly seminar series, and the newly established Dr. Frank Anton Distinguished Lecture Series in Economics. We are also home to a federal data centre, so students can apply directly for their own research agendas.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Two courses each in econometrics, microeconomic theory and macroeconomic theory.
Candidacy:
Students must submit a second-year research paper, complete comprehensive exams and submit a thesis proposal.
Additional Courses:
May include international trade, energy, labour, regulatory, financial or public economics, research methods, other topics.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Regulatory agencies, central banks, international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund, financial services industry, universities.
A PhD in economics is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six core courses and six electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Five years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Aidan Hollis
Unavailable
Industrial Organization
Arvind Magesan
Accepting Inquiries
Structural Econometrics, Political Economy, Empirical Microeconomics
Rob Oxoby
Accepting Inquiries
Behavioural and Experimental Economics, Political Economy
Aamir Rafique Hashmi
Accepting Inquiries
Macroeconomics
Blake Shaffer
Accepting Inquiries
Electricity markets, energy transition, climate policy
Trevor Tombe
Accepting Inquiries
Jean-Francois Wen
Unavailable
Public Economics
Alexander Whalley
Accepting Inquiries
Labor Economics, Innovation and Productivity, Urban Economics
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MA degree in Economics or equivalent, with a high level of proficiency in Microeconomic Theory, Macroeconomic Theory, and Econometrics. Students may be required to upgrade their knowledge in those fields if courses were taken more than five years ago.
Work samples
None
Documents
The Department of Economics does
not require
GRE scores for admission purposes. However, the Department of Economics Admissions Committee would encourage students to submit the GRE. To clarify, an offer of admission can go through without a GRE test having been taken, or a score submitted, so long as all other required documents are submitted.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
Graduate Record Examinations (GRE)
are not required for admission however the program strongly encourages PhD applicants to supply their
GRE
scores. Both admission and funding are highly competitive, and we do use these scores to help make difficult decisions. There is no substitute for the GRE.  Applicants should score at least 155 in the Quantitative Section and at least 3.5 in the Analytical Writing Section.
Note:
Students who have obtained a degree at a Canadian University are not expected to submit GRE results but are also encouraged to do so. The GRE School Code is 0813 and Department Code is 1801.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Applications open: October 1
Canadians and permanent residents: January 15 application deadline
International students: January 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Economics
Social Sciences Building, Room 454
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Economics
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Highlights of the Anthropology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Economics professor heads the Health Impact Fund
Aidan Hollis is President of the HIF, working to make pharmaceuticals more accessible
Read More
Recent economics graduates
Learn about the success of some of our recent graduates
Read more
Three Minute Thesis
Practice your communication skills, build your network and learn about amazing UCalgary research
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary