Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/economics-ma-thesis

Economics
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Notice
The department of Economics is not accepting applications at this time.  Students are encouraged to apply for the MA Course based program.
Explore the MA course-based program
Program overview
This is your chance to pursue your degree in a vibrant, research-focused environment where students are encouraged to explore topics beyond the typical definition of economics studies.
Our faculty members regularly publish work in leading academic journals, showcasing expertise in climate change, international trade, energy policy and more. Our students come from diverse backgrounds; in a typical year, we accept 25 students into our two MA programs (thesis- and course-based), drawing from applicants across Canada and around the world.
Our department is committed to the sharing of fresh ideas, sponsoring conferences and workshops, a weekly seminar series, and the newly established Dr. Frank Anton Distinguished Lecture Series in Economics. We are also home to a federal data centre, so students can apply directly for their own research agendas.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Econometrics, Microeconomic Theory and Macroeconomic Theory.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Additional Courses:
May include international trade, energy, labour, regulatory, financial or public economics, research methods, other topics.
Outcomes
Regulatory agencies, central banks, international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund, financial services industry, universities.
A master’s degree in economics will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Minimum three core courses and three electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Aidan Hollis
Unavailable
Industrial Organization
Rob Oxoby
Accepting Inquiries
Behavioural and Experimental Economics, Political Economy
Blake Shaffer
Accepting Inquiries
Electricity markets, energy transition, climate policy
Glen Sumner
Unavailable
Health Economics and Cardiovascular Outcomes, Health Outcomes Research, Health Economics and Cardiovascular Outcomes, Health Economics: Health Finance and Health Policy, Health Economics:  Health Care Financing, Health Economics: Behavioural Economics, Health Economics: Health Care Financing, Health Economics: Health Care Finance
Trevor Tombe
Accepting Inquiries
Jean-Francois Wen
Unavailable
Public Economics
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year degree from a recognized institution, with specific courses: 4 full-course equivalents of economics courses that include equivalents to: Economics 395/495/497 (Econometrics) Economics 387/389 (Math for economists) Economics 557 (Senior Microeconomics) Economics 559 (Senior Macroeconomics) Must have a B average in senior economics courses.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Economics
Social Sciences Building, Room 454
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Economics
Course-based MA
PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary