Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/economics-ma-course

Economics
Master of Arts (MA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This course-based program provides students with a strong foundation of theoretical and empirical knowledge. Our faculty members regularly publish work in leading academic journals, showcasing expertise in climate change, international trade, energy policy and more. Our students come from diverse backgrounds; in a typical year, we accept 25 students into our two MA programs (thesis- and course-based), drawing from applicants across Canada and around the world.
Our department is committed to the sharing of fresh ideas, sponsoring conferences and workshops, a weekly seminar series, and the newly established Dr. Frank Anton Distinguished Lecture Series in Economics.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Econometrics, Microeconomic Theory and Macroeconomic Theory.
Research Paper: Students complete a research paper as a capstone project.
Research Paper:
Students complete a paper on a research project, literature review or a critical analysis of a theoretical or policy problem.
Additional Courses:
May include international trade, energy, labour, regulatory, financial or public economics, research methods, other topics.
Research Defence:
Students defend their research in an open conference and if unsuccessful, students complete a comprehensive written exam.
Outcomes
Government agencies and ministries, energy industry, financial services industry.
A course-based master’s degree in economics is usually considered a final degree, but can also give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Course-based program
Three core courses, four electives and a research methods sequence
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
One year full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year degree from a recognized institution, with specific courses: 4 full-course equivalents of economics courses that include equivalents to: Economics 395/495/497 (Econometrics) Economics 387/389 (Math for economists) Economics 557 (Senior Microeconomics) Economics 559 (Senior Macroeconomics) Must have a B average in senior economics courses.
Work samples
None
Documents
A current C.V.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
Graduate Record Examinations (GRE)
are not required for admission however the program strongly encourages MA and PhD applicants to supply their
GRE
scores. Both admission and funding are highly competitive, and we do use these scores to help make difficult decisions. There is no substitute for the GRE.  Applicants should score at least 155 in the Quantitative Section and at least 3.5 in the Analytical Writing Section.
Note:
Students who have obtained a degree at a Canadian University are not expected to submit GRE results but are also encouraged to do so. The GRE School Code is 0813 and Department Code is 1801.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Applications open: October 1
Canadians and permanent residents: January 15 application deadline
International students: January 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Economics
Social Sciences Building, Room 454
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Economics
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Thesis-based PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary