Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/educational-research-ma-thesis

Educational Research
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Arts in Educational Research creates scholars capable of advancing their field of study and requires intensive study through which students will move from general to specialized expertise in a focused area of arts-related research. The thesis-based degree is designed to train academics in planning, conducting, evaluating and reporting leading original research with a high degree of competence and integrity. Graduates of the program go on to become the future stewards of their discipline: scholars who are not only capable of generating new research, but of transforming the landscape of their profession. This program is only available on campus.
Completing this program
Adult Learning:
Students take courses in research methods, topics in adult learning and electives.
Language and Literacy:
Students take courses in research methods, theory and research in language and literacy and more.
Learning Sciences:
Students take courses in research methods and electives in the learning sciences specialization.
Curriculum and Learning:
Students take courses in research methods, interpretive inquiry, interpretive study of curriculum and more.
Leadership:
Students take courses in research methods, topics in educational leadership and electives determined by the student and supervisor.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original thesis.
Specializations
Adult Learning
Curriculum and Learning
Language and Literacy
Leadership
Learning Sciences
Outcomes
PhD studies in Education, Research, Not-for-profit organizations, Bilingual Education, Intercultural Communication, English Language Arts, Media Education, Culture Studies, Curricular Consultant, Public and Private Education systems, Leadership positions in Community and Non-governmental agencies.
A master’s degree in educational research will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses, up to four electives depending on specialization
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum; one year residency requirement
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Maren Aukerman
Accepting Inquiries
Meaning-making, literacy, classroom discourse
Subrata Bhowmik
Seeking Students
L2 Writing, EAP, Sociocultural Approaches to L2 Learning
Barbara Brown
Accepting Inquiries
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, K-12 Teaching and Leadership
Amy Burns
Accepting Inquiries
Educational Leadership and Teacher Education
Tonya Callaghan
Unavailable
Anti-Oppression & Anti-Homophobia Education; Critical Social Justice; Critical Theory; Curriculum Theory; Qualitative Research; Women & Gender Studies
Catherine Chua
Unavailable
Roswita Dressler
Accepting Inquiries
Second Language Teaching and Learning, Linguistic Identity
Sarah Elaine Eaton
Accepting Inquiries
Ethics in Educational Contexts
Janet Groen
Accepting Inquiries
Adult Learning
Michele Jacobsen
Unavailable
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, Graduate Education and Peer Mentoring
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution
Work samples
None
Documents
A written statement indicating the applicant’s reasons for wishing to pursue a graduate program
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Research graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Highlights of the Anthropology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Werklund student one of Avenue Magazine's Top 40 under 40
Liana Appelt is Calgary's youngest school principal, a community volunteer and an advocate for bilingual education
Read More
Mixing it up
Catherine Burwell investigates the concept of the remix in an educational context
Read more
Three Minute Thesis
Practice your communication skills, build your network and learn about amazing UCalgary research
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary