Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/educational-research-med-laddered-pathway

Educational Research
Master of Education - Laddered Pathway (MEd)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
As a course-based program aimed at working professionals, the Master of Education laddered pathway allows participants to earn their degree in stages. Students complete a Certificate, followed by a Diploma and ultimately the MEd degree. The program is designed to give students deeper insight into their discipline, field of study, or area of professional practice in two topic areas. Students complete a topic (four courses) each year. Topics are offered in face-to-face, fully online and blended formats, which combine face-to-face and online delivery throughout the program. Students do not require a supervisor; an Academic Program Coordinator advises all students within a cohort.
Please note: this program has a July (summer) starting date.
Completing this program
Graduate Certificate:
In the first year, students complete four courses in their first topic to earn the Graduate Certificate.
Graduate Diploma:
In the second year, students complete another four courses in their second topic to earn the Graduate Diploma.
MEd Degree:
The final year requires three education research courses and a collaboratory of practice course to complete the MEd requirements.
Specializations
Interdisciplinary
School Counselling
Outcomes
Practicing teachers, school leadership, not-for-profit organizations, bilingual education, curriculum and ICT specialists, public and private education systems, leadership positions in community and non-governmental agencies, career advancement.
A course-based master’s degree in educational research (specialist or interdisciplinary) may give you the prerequisites for the professional Education Doctorate (EdD).
Course-based program
12 courses (through a laddered pathway with 4 courses at each stage)
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Blended delivery
Includes both classroom and online delivery
Time commitment
One year for each of the three program components; six years maximum
Supervisor
An academic coordinator is assigned to the cohort of students in the course-based Master of Education program.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two references are required for applications to the graduate certificate (the first stage of the laddered program).
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on July 1 to the Master of Education program:
Canadians and permanent residents: March 1 application deadline
International students: March 1 application deadline
For admission on July 1 to the Graduate Certificate and Graduate Diploma:
Canadians and permanent residents: March 1 application deadline
International students: March 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Research graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary