Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/educational-research-edd

Educational Research
Doctor of Education (EdD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Doctor of Education is designed for practicing professionals who seek to lead change and innovation in education. Students will gain expertise in pedagogical theory and practice while designing and conducting a significant body of original research. This thesis-based degree is designed to match the busy lifestyles of people in education-related occupations and organizations, allowing students to pursue scholarship while working. While the degree is structured as a blended, three-year program that includes course work, candidacy and dissertation, students are allowed up to six years to complete all degree requirements.
Completing this program
Core Courses
: Students complete four specialization courses and research courses in participatory methodology in education, design-based research or action research. Students also complete two collaboratories of practice courses and two dissertation seminars.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal and both oral and written candidacy exams.
Additional Courses:
Students may complete additional research courses as electives.
Dissertation:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research dissertation.
Specializations
Full list of current specializations
Outcomes
School superintendent, school principal, post-secondary/continuing education administrator, Not-for-profit organization, medical doctor, health care organization, Corporate sector, Public/private education, School management, Education policy and governance.
The EdD in educational research is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Eight courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Blended delivery
Classroom and online delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Maren Aukerman
Accepting Inquiries
Meaning-making, literacy, classroom discourse
Subrata Bhowmik
Accepting Inquiries
L2 Writing, EAP, Sociocultural Approaches to L2 Learning
Barbara Brown
Accepting Inquiries
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, K-12 Teaching and Leadership
Amy Burns
Accepting Inquiries
Educational Leadership and Teacher Education
Tonya Callaghan
Unavailable
Anti-Oppression & Anti-Homophobia Education; Critical Social Justice; Critical Theory; Curriculum Theory; Qualitative Research; Women & Gender Studies
Catherine Chua
Unavailable
Roswita Dressler
Accepting Inquiries
Second Language Teaching and Learning, Linguistic Identity
Sarah Elaine Eaton
Accepting Inquiries
Ethics in Educational Contexts
Janet Groen
Accepting Inquiries
Adult Learning
Michele Jacobsen
Accepting Inquiries
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, Graduate Education and Peer Mentoring
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A course or thesis based master's degree in an appropriate field.
Work samples
None
Documents
A written statement indicating the applicant’s reasons for wishing to pursue a graduate program
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Admission Portfolio
Applicants to the Doctor of Education program are encouraged to submit an Admission Portfolio containing examples of their work. The Admission Portfolio is especially relevant for applicants who do not hold a thesis-based Master's degree. The Doctoral Admission Portfolio may contain the following:
Thesis methodology chapter (if applicable)
Reports.
Research grants or scholarships.
Writing sample (curriculum development, conference presentations and/or proceedings)
Non-print materials, e.g. link to a personal external website, blogs
Evidence of relevant prior learning (see graduate calendar).
A Personal statement documenting research and professional skills and interests.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on July 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
Educational Research graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Educational Research
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary