Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/educational-research-med-direct-entry

Educational Research
Master of Education - Direct Entry (MEd)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The course-based Master of Education: Direct Entry program is aimed at working professionals, and is designed to educate students as leaders of professional practice in the field of educational research. This degree will deepen educators' understanding of their chosen field. It will help them gain a critical awareness of current issues in pedagogy, and will spark fresh insights for new methods and approaches to teaching. Students in this program focus on an academic discipline, field of study, or area of professional practice in one area of specialization. Students do not require a supervisor; an Academic Program Coordinator advises all students within a cohort.
This cohort-based program has a July start date.
Completing this program
Research Courses:
Topics include research methods, program evaluation, participatory and action-oriented research and more.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include complex learning problems, assessment and evaluation, classroom, workplace and adult learning and more.
Specializations
Full list of current specializations
Outcomes
Practicing teachers, School leadership, Not-for-profit organizations, Bilingual Education, Curriculum and ICT specialists, Public and Private Education systems, Leadership positions in Community and Non-governmental agencies, Career advancement.
A course-based master’s degree in educational research (specialist or interdisciplinary) will give you the prerequisites for the professional Education Doctorate (EdD).
Course-based program
Four research courses and eight specialization courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Blended delivery
Online and blended courses with some face-to-face on-campus meeting times at the University of Calgary.
Time commitment
Two or three years full-time
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A written statement indicating the applicant's reasons for pursuing a graduate program in Graduate Programs in Education.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Qualifying Experience
Candidates will be expected to have a minimum of two years of teaching experience or alternative professional experience. In some cases, individuals who lack some academic requirements may be considered for admission if they have significant life achievements.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on July 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: March 1 application deadline
International students: March 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Research graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Werklund School of Education's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary