Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/education

Education
Bachelor of Education (BEd)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Education?
Educators ask questions such as: How do classroom dynamics impact learning? Are there new ways to engage students? Do learning styles affect test scores?
Bachelor of Education graduates are certified to teach in Alberta’s kindergarten through grade twelve classrooms, across all subject areas. Whether you’re interested in elementary or secondary education, our programs will provide you with theoretical and practical experiences that’ll help you establish an enriching career.
Your Pathway
The University of Calgary offers five pathways to obtain your Bachelor of Education, presenting plenty of options for you to find your best fit. We offer teachable subject areas in elementary, secondary, and kindergarten through grade twelve routes.
Four-Year On-Campus Pathway:
Available for high school or transfer applicants, Our four-year BEd is the fastest way to become a certified teacher. This degree ensures that you receive both teachable subject area expertise, as well as a breadth of coursework to help you work in all ‘k-12’ classrooms.
Four-Year Community-Based Pathway:
If you live in a rural and remote community, the Community-Based pathway offers you the ability to complete your BEd in a blended-delivery format, with online courses, field experience practicum placements conducted in or near your home community, and two-week summer intensives. You’ll receive continual support and guidance from our Calgary-based Undergraduate Programs in Education office over the course of your studies.
Five-Year Concurrent Pathway:
The Concurrent BEd allows you to earn two degrees in just five years of full-time study. You’ll graduate with both a Bachelor of Education, and a Bachelor of Arts, Science, or Kinesiology. This pathway is available to both high school or transfer applicants with fewer than 20 post-secondary courses completed.
Two-Year After-Degree On-Campus Pathway:
If you’ve already completed a degree, and would like to pursue your dream of becoming a teacher, our two-year after-degree will ensure you get all of the coursework required to obtain your BEd parchment, and your teacher certification.
Two-Year After-Degree Community-Based Pathway:
Also for degree-holders, the Community-Based pathway is for students residing in rural and remote areas, using a blended-delivery format with online courses, field experience practicum placements conducted in or near your home community, and two-week summer intensives. You’ll receive continual support and guidance from our Calgary-based Undergraduate Programs in Education office over the course of your studies.
Career opportunities
​Teaching within primary and secondary schools, working as vocational college instructors, and taking on administrative roles in the educational system are just a sampling of the careers available to educators. A degree in education can also be used as a stepping-stone to another professional degree such as law, medicine, veterinary medicine, or dentistry.
Program highlights
Practicum experience - Opportunity to gain hands-on career related experiences in a professional setting.
Study abroad opportunities - Cultural and academic experiences at destinations around the world.
Experiential learning opportunities - Enhance your studies by connecting with community organizations and experienced educators.
Collaborative team work - Interact with your peers while learning to collaborate on projects.
Detailed course information
First Year Links - First year Degree Guide
Program concentrations (Course Calendar)
Filters
Keywords
Items per page
15
20
25
All
Education Programs
- Any -
Early Childhood Education
English
English Language Learners
Fine Arts
French
Inclusive Education
Math
Physical Education
Science
Second Languages
Social Studies
Education Pathways
- Any -
4 Year On-Campus
4 Year Community-Based
After degree On-campus (2 year)
After degree Community-Based (2 year)
Concurrent On-campus (5 year)
Education Type
- Any -
Elementary
Secondary
K-12
Filter
List view
Results for:
Clear all filters
Early Childhood Education - 4 Year Community-Based - K-12
Early Childhood Education - 4 Year On-Campus - Elementary
Early Childhood Education - After Degree Community-Based (2 Year) - Elementary
Early Childhood Education - After Degree On-Campus (2 Year) - Elementary)
Early Childhood Education - Concurrent On-Campus (5 Year) - Elementary
English Language Arts - 4 Year Community-Based - K-12
English Language Arts - 4 Year On-Campus - Elementary
English Language Arts - 4 Year On-Campus - Secondary
English Language Arts - After Degree Community-Based (2 Year) - Elementary
English Language Arts - After Degree Community-Based (2 Year) - Secondary
English Language Arts - After Degree On-Campus (2 Year) - Elementary
English Language Arts - After Degree On-Campus (2 Year) - Secondary
English Language Arts - Concurrent On-Campus (5 Year) - Elementary
English Language Arts - Concurrent On-Campus (5 Year) - Secondary
English Language Learners - 4 Year On-Campus - K-12
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
Werklund School of Education
Education Tower, Room 230
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.5639
Visit the faculty site