Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/educational-research-phd

Educational Research
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Doctor of Philosophy degree prepares scholars for leadership careers in research and teaching. Students engage with established and emerging ideas in the theory and practice of pedogogy, leading to comprehensive and specialized understanding of their area of study. Through original research, students help to open and extend the field of educational research. By critiquing and building upon scholarly and practical research and contemporary discourses in education, students will participate in creating the next generation of ethical and ecologically sustainable educational systems. A two-year, on-campus residency is required for this research-intensive and thesis-based program, which is delivered on-campus only.
Completing this program
Adult Learning:
Students take courses in research methods, advanced topics in adult learning and electives.
Language and Literacy:
Students take courses in research methods and on theory and research in language and literacy.
Learning Sciences:
Students take courses in research methods and electives in educational research from the learning sciences specialization.
Curriculum and Learning:
Students take courses in research methods, interpretive study of curriculum and additional seminars.
Leadership:
Students take courses in research methods, a seminar in educational leadership and electives in educational research.
Candidacy and Thesis:
Students complete a research proposal and oral and written candidacy exams, and submit and defend an original thesis.
Specializations
Adult Learning
Curriculum and Learning
Language and Literacy
Leadership
Learning Sciences
Outcomes
Professor, Research and Not-for-profit organizations, Bilingual Education, Intercultural Communication, English Language Arts, Media Education, Culture Studies, Curricular Consultant, Public and Private Education, Community and Non-governmental agencies, School management, Policy and governance.
A PhD in educational research is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Five core courses, and up to three electives depending on specialization
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum; two year residency requirement
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Maren Aukerman
Accepting Inquiries
Meaning-making, literacy, classroom discourse
Subrata Bhowmik
Accepting Inquiries
L2 Writing, EAP, Sociocultural Approaches to L2 Learning
Barbara Brown
Accepting Inquiries
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, K-12 Teaching and Leadership
Amy Burns
Accepting Inquiries
Educational Leadership and Teacher Education
Tonya Callaghan
Unavailable
Anti-Oppression & Anti-Homophobia Education; Critical Social Justice; Critical Theory; Curriculum Theory; Qualitative Research; Women & Gender Studies
Catherine Chua
Unavailable
Roswita Dressler
Accepting Inquiries
Second Language Teaching and Learning, Linguistic Identity
Sarah Elaine Eaton
Accepting Inquiries
Ethics in Educational Contexts
Janet Groen
Accepting Inquiries
Adult Learning
Michele Jacobsen
Accepting Inquiries
Learning Sciences, Educational Technology, Graduate Education and Peer Mentoring
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A thesis-based master's degree in an appropriate field from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A statement outlining the applicant's interests and reasons for wishing to pursue graduate work in this department. Clearly identify your thesis research area
A C.V
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Admission Portfolio
Applicants to the Doctor of Philosophy program are encouraged to submit an Admission Portfolio containing examples of their work.The Doctoral Admission Portfolio may contain the following:
Thesis (if applicable).
Reports.
Research grants or scholarships.
Articles.
Curriculum documents.
Non-print materials, (e.g. multimedia).
Evidence of relevant prior learning (see graduate calendar).
Personal statement documenting research skills and interests.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Research graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Werklund School of Education's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary