Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/electrical-and-computer-engineering-meng-software-course

Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Engineering - Software (MEng Soft)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This high-impact program enables you to complete your degree in as little as eight months – the fastest graduate degree we offer. This MEng in software engineering will equip you with the programming knowledge you need to advance your career in an increasingly digitized engineering environment. digitized engineering environment. Foundation courses are built in to the program if you have no software engineering background. These foundation courses are taken in the Spring and Summer terms, and will get you up to speed before you start the core degree courses. If this is your situation, you will complete your degree in 12 months, taking three foundation courses and 10 core courses over three terms. If you already have a software engineering undergrad, or electrical engineering undergrad with a minor in computer engineering, you could complete the 10 core courses over two terms. We designed this expedited program to meet a high market demand for software engineering expertise, as a result, it requires a full-time commitment.
For those interested in part-time MEng studies, consider our
regular course-based electrical and computer engineering option
.
Completing this program
Foundation courses:
For engineers with no software engineering background, three courses make up a foundation semester to update your programming skills and knowledge.
Core courses:
10 courses are required to complete this degree. Core topics include: Agile Software Engineering, Software Release Planning, Software Engineering Standards and Models, Advanced Software Testing, Automated Software Engineering and more. Two of the 10 courses are a team design project.
General engineering courses:
Students may select up to two general engineering courses as part of the 10 courses required. Topics include innovation and entrepreneurship, ethics, law and the engineering profession, project management and engineering tools.
Specializations
Software Engineering
Engineering, Environmental Interdisciplinary Specialization
Engineering, Energy and Environment Interdisciplinary Specialization
Energy and Environmental Systems Interdisciplinary Specialization
Outcomes
Software engineer in public and private sectors, consulting industry or management.
A course-based master’s degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Graduate Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Eight months to one year full-time
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
MEng degrees are self-funded.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree in engineering, or an equivalent degree, from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
One official copy of your final transcript (and degree certificate if degree is not clearly stated on transcript) in a signed, sealed envelope from the institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
Official transcripts can be mailed to us directly from the institution, or they can be mailed to you directly and you can send them to us yourself
We will not accept unsealed official transcripts as official
References
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on May 1 (non software engineering background):
December 15: Deadline for International applicants
April 15: Deadline for Domestic applicants
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Electrical and Software Engineering
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Economics
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law
Course-based Certificate
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary