Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/electrical-and-computer-engineering-msc-thesis

Electrical and Computer Engineering
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students with a bachelor degree who aspire to grow their talents will enjoy the Electrical and Computer Engineering (MSc Thesis) program. The research-based degree usually takes students two years of full-time study beyond a bachelor’s degree, placing them at the heart of a group of like-minded researchers who are looking at challenging, real-world problems to find innovative, practical solutions. Successful students can go on to work in high-tech companies in positions such as research and development engineer, system/network architect, system designer, system engineer, application engineer, application developer, and software architect.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include virtual environments, data mining, intelligent control, VLSI and SOC, multidimensional signal processing and more.
Professional Development Courses:
Students take two professional development courses on communication styles, presentation skills and more.
Software Engineering Specialization:
Topics may include modelling and measurement of software performance, advanced software testing and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Master of Science (MSc) Thesis-based in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Software Engineering
(
offered jointly through the Department of Electrical and Software Engineering and the Department of Computer Science
)
Engineering, Energy and Environment Interdisciplinary
Engineering, Environmental Interdisciplinary
Energy and Environmental Systems Interdisciplinary
Wearable Technology Interdisciplinary
Medical Imaging Interdisciplinary
Outcomes
Electrical energy, electronics, control, and instrumentation, telecommunications, information and communications technology, computer, software, oil and gas, medical, biomedical, automotive.
A master’s degree in electrical and computer engineering will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four to seven courses including three in the area of specialization
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion time 20 months; four years maximum; part-time available
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Hatem Abou-Zeid
Seeking Students
6G Networking & Communications, Safe and Robust Machine Learning, Immersive Multi-Sensory Communications, Sustainability using AI and Optimization, Industrial Internet-of-Things
Ann Barcomb
Accepting Inquiries
Software engineering, open source software, human and social aspects of software engineering, human factors, research methods, collaboration, community management
Leo Belostotski
Accepting Inquiries
RF and Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuits and Systems
Colin Dalton
Unavailable
Electrokinetic Microsystems, Microneedles, Brain-machine interfaces
Lorenzo De Carli
Accepting Inquiries
Network Security, Software Security, Usable Security
Ronnie de Souza Santos
Seeking Students
Human Aspects of Software Engineering, Software Fairness, Software Testing, Software Engineering Education
Vahid Dehghanian
Accepting Inquiries
Signal Processing, Indoor Positioning, Wireless Positioning, Simultaneous Location and Mapping (SLAM)
Gouri Ginde Deshpande
Accepting Inquiries
Software Engineering, Requirements Engineering, Machine Learning, NLP, Data Analytics
Steve Drew
Accepting Inquiries
Distributed Learning Systems, Edge Computing, Container orchestration systems and AIOps, Blockchain Services
Abraham O. Fapojuwo
Accepting Inquiries
5G and Beyond Wireless Networks, IoT Networking, Wi-Fi Networking, Vehicular Networking, Simultaneous Wireless Information and Power Transfer
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
For the software engineering specialization
At least one year of experience in software development.
Background knowledge and interest in software engineering methods and concepts, and their applications.
An ability to design and develop software systems in either an academic or industrial setting.
Knowledge of object-oriented design and human-computer interaction.
4 courses and an applied software engineering project written up as a Master of Science thesis.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 31 application deadline
International students: Jan. 31 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Apr. 30 application deadline
International students: Apr. 30 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Electrical and Software Engineering
ICT (Information and Communications Technology) 402
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.7596
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Economics
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Phd
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Math and Statistics
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law
Course-based Certificate
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary