Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/english-phd

English
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Build on your intellectual curiosity and foundational understanding of English Literature to become an expert in your field. Develop an original and focused area of research and proceed to the dissertation to develop original creative or critical work (or a hybrid of both). The University of Calgary's graduate program in English boasts the longest-running program in Canada with a creative PhD thesis option, attracting national and international acclaim. All students pursuing an English doctoral degree will learn from highly accomplished faculty in several traditional and emerging fields. Our creative writing faculty members include a Canada Research Chair in Creative Writing. The program is ideal for students seeking academic careers and advanced training in research, writing and pedagogy. It provides a foundation for a range of careers requiring articulate, thoughtful, creative and innovative thinkers with strong research and communication skills. The creative stream and critical dissertation stream are equally rigorous; all students undertake a range of courses and field of study exams, and defend their thesis work orally.
Prospective students are encouraged to
inquire with the department
about their minimum funding policy.
Completing this program
Core course:
Graduate Pro-seminar on critical skills and professional issues in graduate-level literary study.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original dissertation.
Language requirement:
Demonstrated proficiency in a language other than English.
Examinations:
Students will complete oral and written field of study examinations, and a thesis proposal.
Specializations
Literature in English (a Creative Writing option is available within this specialization)
Outcomes
Academic or post-secondary teaching, research, editing, publishing, archival work, educational software and technology, college, university and government administration and policy; communications, technical and creative writing; digital and online publishing, non-profits and NGOs, freelance writing.
A PhD in English is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six courses and a Graduate Pro-Seminar course
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Karen Bourrier
Accepting Inquiries
Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture, Digital Humanities, Disability Studies
Michael Clarke
Seeking Students
U.S. Literature, Cultural Studies, Theories of Size and Scale, Theories of the Body, Gender Studies, Democracy Theory, Post-Marxist theory, Postcolonial Theory
Kit Dobson
Accepting Inquiries
Literatures in Canada
Jim Ellis
Accepting Inquiries
Renaissance literature
Faye Halpern
Accepting Inquiries
Nineteenth-Century American Literature, Narrative Theory, Pedagogy, History of the Discipline
Clara A.B. Joseph
Accepting Inquiries
Creative Writing (Poetry, Non-Fiction Prose, Fiction); the Global Early Modern Period, Postcolonial Studies; South Asian Studies; Literary and Cultural Theory; Church History; Christianity
Derritt Mason
Accepting Inquiries
Suzette Mayr
Unavailable
Murray McGillivray
Accepting Inquiries
Medieval literature, Digital humanities
Rain Prud'homme-Cranford
Unavailable
Afro-Indigenous Studies, Indigenous Studies, BIPOC Literatures, Rhetorics, & Cultures, Critical Mixed Race Studies, Environmental Humanities & Ecocriticism   , Two-Spirit, Queer, Gender, and Sexuality, Fatness, disAbility, & Wellness Studies, TEK & STEAM & Literary Theory
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum grade point average of 3.5 on a 4.0 scale at the graduate level.
Minimum education
A completed four-year undergraduate program (or equivalent), and a completed Master’s degree. At least one of the degrees must be in English Literature. In exceptional circumstances, degrees in a closely related discipline may meet admission requirements.
Work samples
A 5-10 page sample of critical writing; for creative writing applicants, an additional 10-page sample of creative writing.
Documents
A statement of intent
A C.V.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7 (minimum of 6.5 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents - apply by Dec. 15
|
submit all supporting documents by Jan. 10
International students - apply by Dec. 15
|
submit all supporting documents by Jan. 10
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of English
Social Sciences Building Room 1148
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
English
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
Drama
Thesis-based MFA
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Linguistics
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary