Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/english-ma-thesis

English
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Creative and curious individuals seeking a two-year thesis based degree will find the English program stimulating, challenging and rewarding. The program appeals to students interested in gaining a deeper understanding of topics in English, a more rigorous set of research and writing skills, and wishing to complete a longer creative or research project. Students learn from distinguished faculty members in a range of fields, including creative writing. Many of our prize-winning graduates have gone on to publish widely; others have gone on to do PhDs and other professional programs nationally and internationally, as well as into successful careers in publishing, business, government and creative industries.
Completing this program
Core Course:
Graduate Pro-seminar on critical skills and professional issues in graduate-level literary study.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original thesis.
Specializations
Literature in English (a Creative Writing option is available within this specialization)
Outcomes
Editing, publishing, law school and PhD studies, archival work, educational software, post-secondary teaching, college, university, government administration and policy, communications, technical writing, creative writing, digital and online publishing, non-profit organizations and NGOs. A thesis-based master’s degree in English is a good way to go on to a PhD.
A thesis-based master’s degree in English will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD, and is also often a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six courses at the English 600 or 700 level beyond the Honours BA.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Pamela Banting
Accepting Inquiries
Environmental Literature, Nature Writing, Eco-Theory and Ecocriticism, Anthropocene Studies, Petrocultural Studies, Psychogeography, The Art of Walking, Literature in/and Motion
Karen Bourrier
Accepting Inquiries
Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture, Digital Humanities, Disability Studies
Dr. Anthony Camara
Accepting Inquiries
Popular Genres of Literature
Michael Clarke
Seeking Students
U.S. Literature, Cultural Studies, Theories of Size and Scale, Theories of the Body, Gender Studies, Democracy Theory, Post-Marxist theory, Postcolonial Theory
Kit Dobson
Accepting Inquiries
Literatures in Canada
Jim Ellis
Accepting Inquiries
Renaissance literature
Faye Halpern
Accepting Inquiries
Nineteenth-Century American Literature, Narrative Theory, Pedagogy, History of the Discipline
Clara A.B. Joseph
Accepting Inquiries
Creative Writing (Poetry, Non-Fiction Prose, Fiction); the Global Early Modern Period, Postcolonial Studies; South Asian Studies; Literary and Cultural Theory; Church History; Christianity
Derritt Mason
Accepting Inquiries
Suzette Mayr
Unavailable
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum admission grade point average of 3.3 on a 4.0 scale over the final 60 units (10 full-course equivalents) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A completed four-year undergraduate program, or equivalent, with a Major in English Literature or in a closely related discipline.
Work samples
A 5-10 page sample of critical writing. For creative writing applicants, an additional 10-page sample of creative writing.
Documents
A statement of intent
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7 (minimum of 6.5 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents - apply by Dec. 15
|
submit all supporting documents by Jan. 10
International students - apply by Dec. 15
|
submit all supporting documents by Jan. 10
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of English
Social Sciences Building, Room 1152
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
English
Course-based MA
PhD
Drama
Thesis-based MFA
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Linguistics
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary