Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/environmental-design

Environmental Design
Master of Environmental Design (MEDes)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Environmental Design?
The Master in Environmental Design (MEDes) is an innovative thesis-based degree program offered by the Faculty of Environmental Design (EVDS). If you wish to expand your current professional or design-related background with advanced interdisciplinary practice-based research and study, then the MEDes program is for you. Blurring traditional disciplinary definitions, you'll undertake your studies in one or more areas included in EVDS, including the science of sustainable design and planning, digital design and fabrication, the history, pedagogy, process and practice of design and urban analysis and planning. Undergraduate study is required - you cannot enter the MEDes program directly from high school. The most up-to-date admission requirements can be found at evds.ucalgary.ca.
Requirements
Requirements for this program can be found at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/
You can also see the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape's
Bachelor Design in City Innovation.
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Visit the SAPL website