Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/environmental-design-phd

Environmental Design
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This program challenges master’s degree holders to become scholars and through quantitative and qualitative research at an advanced level. Students develop and demonstrate knowledge and skills, synthesize related research findings to create new knowledge in the field, and communicate these findings to those inside and outside the field who will use and apply them.
Blurring traditional disciplinary definitions, students undertake their research in one or more areas included in environmental design. Thesis documents may incorporate detailed design interventions, policy frameworks, neighbourhood guidelines, code research or combinations of these and other results. Students will work with faculty comprised of eminent design researchers and professionals, recognized internationally for their work. Students will develop knowledge and skills as individuals and in teams, synthesize related research findings, and communicate these findings for real-world application.
Completing this program
Core Courses
: Design Research Methods, Design Research Writing, Design Innovation
Additional Courses:
One required elective; may include topics such as design thinking, urban infrastructure, urban design, urban systems, special topics and others.
Annual Progress Reports:
Student progress reports must be submitted annually by the student and the supervisor.
Field Work and Research:
Off-campus fieldwork and research may count towards the fulfillment of the full-time study and research requirement.
Thesis Proposal:
A thesis proposal approved by the supervisor.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Academia, government/civil service, municipalities, engineering, energy resources, natural resources, environmental management, planning, urban design, research institutions, private sector.
A PhD in environmental design is usually considered a terminal degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses and two electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
For our thesis programs, we can only offer admission to applicants who we can match with a supervisor. We don’t require applicants have a confirmed supervisor upon application, however it’s strongly recommended to reach out to any professors whose research interests match yours. You will be asked to list the names of a few professors you feel are a good fit in your online application form.
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree (
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/about/people/faculty
).
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Enrica Dall'Ara
Accepting Inquiries
Landscape Architecture
Thomas P,  (Tom) Keenan
Accepting Inquiries
Social Implications of Technology, Privacy and Security, Smart Communities, Technocreepiness, Cybersecurity and Cyberwarfare, Non-financial Applications of the Blockchain
David Monteyne
Accepting Inquiries
architectural history, history of architecture, urban history, urban studies, environmental design theory
Alicia Nahmad Vazquez
Seeking Students
Computational Design, Robotic Fabrication, Human-Robot Collaboration, Machine Learning, Digital Design and Fabrication
Brian Sinclair
Accepting Inquiries
Mauricio Soto-Rubio
Accepting Inquiries
Joshua Taron
Accepting Inquiries
Sasha Tsenkova
Accepting Inquiries
housing policy and housing market performance, planning sustainable communities
Barry Wylant
Accepting Inquiries
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point scale, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree
. A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point scale for the master’s degree.
Minimum education
A completed master’s degree as well as a professional design degree from an accredited school.
Documents
All documents should be submitted in digital form (.PDF files), uploaded by the applicant to their Student Centre, following submission of their online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the application documents can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/phd
.
Portfolio:
Provide examples of or illustrate design work, professional work, research, creative thinking, community action, planning products, or graphics and visual communication. If any of the work submitted involved collaboration with others, the applicant should clearly identify their individual contributions.
Examples of Writing:
Provide at least one example of the applicant's previous academic or professional work such as a written essay, published research paper, major academic paper, thesis, design project, or consulting report.
Research Proposal:
A research proposal that describes the nature of the thesis research the applicant expects to undertake. This will be used by an admissions committee as an indicator of the applicant’s ability to conduct doctoral-level research and to determine if adequate supervisory resources are available. Only if such resources are available will the student be admitted.
CV/Resume:
A summary of your experiences in education, work, volunteering, and other relevant areas.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Feb. 1 application deadline
International students: Feb. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
403.220.7131
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Architecture
Course-based March
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary