Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/environmental-engineering-meng-course

Environmental Engineering
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The MEng in Environmental Engineering gives you a competitive advantage, taking your education beyond your four-year bachelor’s degree and preparing you for advanced career opportunities. This program is often completed in one to two years of full-time study, and part-time options are available.
Expand your career opportunities in the areas of environmental sustainability, waste management, water quality, air quality, site assessment and reclamation, natural resource management, and energy.
MEng Internship
This program offers an 8-to-16 month full-time paid internship with companies across Canada to help students gain engineering work experience in a diverse economy. Limited spots are available.
Learn more about this exciting internship opportunity by visiting the
MEng Internship Page.
Completing this program
Courses:
10 courses are required to complete this degree, four of which are core engineering courses in digital engineering, sustainability engineering, climate change adaptation, and ethics, law, and the engineering profession  The balance may be selected from topics such as:
Principles of Environmental Engineering
Environmental Chemistry and Microbiology
Air Pollution Control Mitigation
Contaminated Soil Remediation
Wastewater Issues for the Oil and Gas Industry
Life Cycle Assessment, and more
Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the professional MEng program in environmental engineering, graduates will have gained advanced scientific and engineering knowledge that will prepare them to work in the areas of environmental sustainability, waste management, water quality, air quality, site assessment and reclamation, natural resource management, and energy.
A course-based master’s degree in environmental engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion time of 1-2 years; 6 years maximum; part-time available.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required.
Fees and funding
MEng degrees are self-funded.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system.
Minimum education
BSc degree or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
We require one official copy of your final transcript (and a degree certificate if the degree is not clearly stated on the transcript) in a signed, sealed envelope from the institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
Official transcripts can be mailed to us directly from the institution, or they can be mailed to you directly and you can send them to us yourself.
We will not accept unsealed official transcripts as official.
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Environmental Engineering - MEng Office
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Civil Engineering
MEng - Course-based
MEng - Thesis-based
MSc - Thesis-based
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
MEng - Cohort
MEng - Course-based
MEng - Thesis-based
MSc - Thesis-based
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
MEng - Course-based
MEng - Thesis-based
MEng, Software - Course-based
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
MEng - Course-based
MEng - Thesis-based
MSc - Thesis-based
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
MEng - Course-based
MSc - Thesis-based
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Environmental Design
MEDes
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary