Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/environmental-design-medes

Environmental Design
Master of Environmental Design (MEDes)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Natural, built and social environments are increasingly seen as intertwined, interdependent, and indeterminate, creating challenging conditions which must be addressed to achieve a sustainable future.
Meeting this challenge requires environmental designers who are strong leaders and visionaries. In order to understand and solve complex spatial issues, thesis students in the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape mobilize a range of methods from different disciplines, including: design explorations, participatory planning exercises, ethnography, surveys, statistics, laboratory science, fieldwork, and archival, visual, and textual studies.
This research-based master’s degree is tailored to recent graduates of professional architecture, planning, or landscape architecture programs — those who want to develop an area of specialization early in their career. As a research-intensive, thesis-based degree, emerging professionals are enabled to extend their education beyond the basic professional degree to explore an area of expertise or practice specialization that will build their CV, increase their value to prospective employers, and accelerate their career objectives.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Design Research Methods, Design Research Writing, Design Innovation
Additional Courses:
One required elective; may include topics such as design thinking, urban infrastructure, urban design, urban systems, special topics and others.
Thesis Proposal:
A thesis proposal approved by the supervisor.
Annual Progress Reports:
Student progress reports must be submitted annually by the student and the supervisor.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Consultancy, civil service, government (e.g. Natural Resources), municipalities, planning, architecture, landscape architecture, academia, research institutions, real estate development, engineering, industrial design, product design.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three core courses and one elective
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
For our thesis programs, we can only offer admission to applicants who we can match with a supervisor. We don’t require applicants have a confirmed supervisor upon application, however it’s strongly recommended to reach out to any professors whose research interests match yours. You will be asked to list the names of a few professors you feel are a good fit in your online application form. Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree (
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/about/people/faculty
).
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Enrica Dall'Ara
Accepting Inquiries
Landscape Architecture
Tawab Hlimi
Accepting Inquiries
Thomas P,  (Tom) Keenan
Accepting Inquiries
Social Implications of Technology, Privacy and Security, Smart Communities, Technocreepiness, Cybersecurity and Cyberwarfare, Non-financial Applications of the Blockchain
David Monteyne
Accepting Inquiries
architectural history, history of architecture, urban history, urban studies, environmental design theory
Alicia Nahmad Vazquez
Seeking Students
Computational Design, Robotic Fabrication, Human-Robot Collaboration, Machine Learning, Digital Design and Fabrication
Brian Sinclair
Accepting Inquiries
Mauricio Soto-Rubio
Accepting Inquiries
Joshua Taron
Accepting Inquiries
Sasha Tsenkova
Accepting Inquiries
housing policy and housing market performance, planning sustainable communities
Barry Wylant
Accepting Inquiries
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point scale, over the last two years of study (a minimum of 20 courses or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Documents
Documents
All documents should be submitted in digital form (.PDF files), uploaded by the applicant to their Student Centre, following submission of their online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the application documents can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at: https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/medes.
Portfolio:
Provide examples of or illustrate design work, professional work, research, creative thinking, community action, planning products, or graphics and visual communication. If any of the work submitted involved collaboration with others, the applicant should clearly identify their individual contributions.
Examples of Writing:
Provide at least one example of the applicant's previous academic or professional work such as a written essay, published research paper, major academic paper, thesis, design project, or consulting report.
Statement of Research Interest:
A clear, concise, and substantive statement of interest, which informs the Admissions Committee of the applicant’s reasons for pursuing the MEDes degree. Please include educational, professional, and personal background alignment with environmental design; you research within an interdisciplinary content; personal/professional goals and how the MEDes program furthers this vision.
Funding plan:
Provide a two-year funding plan that demonstrates that financial resources are available for the entire program of study, including scholarship and student award funding to supplement personal funds.
CV/Resume:
A summary of your experiences in education, work, volunteering, and other relevant areas.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Feb. 1 application deadline
International students: Feb. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Architecture
Course-based March
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary