Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/gastrointestinal-sciences-msc-thesis

Gastrointestinal Sciences
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Research in the Gastrointestinal Sciences graduate program focuses on creating a better understanding of normal digestive function, including the mechanisms responsible for dysfunction and the development of disease. Masters students work with highly-skilled scientists on research into illnesses such as inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis/Crohn’s Disease), irritable bowel disease, and bacterial (such as clostridium difficile) or parasitic (helminthes and giardiasis) infections. The wide range of program specializations reflects the diversity of research interests and disciplinary strengths of our faculty and students.
Students participate in journal clubs, research groups, interdisciplinary training and professional development activities.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include gastrointestinal physiology and others.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Seminar:
Students will regularly attend the Snyder Graduate Program Seminar Series.
Research proposal:
Students must defend a written research proposal to their supervisory committee.
Specializations
Physiology
Biochemistry
Molecular Biology
Pharmacology
Immunology
Immunopharmacology
Microbiology
Nutrition
Parasitology
Pathology
Epidemiology
Host-Pathogen Interactions
Outcomes
Pharmaceutical industry – researcher, project manager; academia, including post-doctoral research; government, consulting, public health.
A master’s degree in gastrointestinal sciences will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before the student applies for admission
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Herman Barkema
Accepting Inquiries
Prasanth Chelikani
Accepting Inquiries
Obesity, Diabetes, Nutrition
Eduardo Cobo
Accepting Inquiries
Innate immunity in the gut
Jeroen De Buck
Accepting Inquiries
Simon Hirota
Seeking Students
Microbial metabolite sensors and the regulation of gut function, The regulation of mesenchymal cell populations by NR4A1 - identifying new treatments for intestinal fibrosis and remodelling in IBD, Generating novel models to assess the pathogenesis of Johne’s disease
Nargis Khan
Accepting Inquiries
Immunology, Infectious Diseases, Innate Immunity, Trained Immunity
Justin MacDonald
Accepting Inquiries
Vascular smooth muscle biology, Chronic inflammation, Chemoproteomic drug discovery
Derek McKay
Seeking Students
Helminth Regulation of Gut Function, Use of Macrophages to Treat Colitis, Metabolic Stress and the Control of Epithelial Function
Yasmin Nasser
Accepting Inquiries
Gastrointestinal Sciences - Chronic visceral pain, microbiome
Pierre-Yves von der Weid
Unavailable
The lymphatic system and its roles in inflammation and inflammatory diseases
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
CV and Confirmation of Funding from the proposed supervisor
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Gastrointestinal Sciences graduate program
Graduate Science Education (Foothills Campus)
HSC G345A, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Gastrointestinal Sciences
PhD
Biological Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Disease
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary