Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geography-mgis-course

Geography
Master of Geographic Information Systems (MGIS)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Geographic Information Systems program will appeal to people who are already in the GIS/remote sensing industry, as well as those seeking to acquire GIS knowledge and practical experience to complement their existing specialization. Students without such backgrounds can use the program to build their spatial analysis skills and experience. The program provides a thorough understanding of geographical information concepts and theory, along with exposure to research and application specialties.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Three courses on topics including remote sensing, spatial analysis and Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
Additional Courses:
Five courses chosen by agreement between the student and advisor supporting the student's research project.
Research Courses:
A course on theoretical issues related to a GIS research topic, and a course on the implementation of a GIS project.
Conference:
Students will participate in the annual department conference by delivering an oral presentation or developing an academic poster (this requirement is suspended for 2021 and 2022 due to COVID restrictions).
Comprehensive Oral Exit Exam
: Students are required to pass an oral examination following completion of all course requirements.
Laddered Pathway from the Graduate Certificate in Geospatial Information Technology to the Master of Geographic Information Systems
Students who complete the Graduate Certificate in Geospatial Information Technology may receive laddering credit for the 12 units of coursework completed in the certificate program if they are subsequently accepted to the Master of Geographic Information Systems within five years of beginning the certificate.
Outcomes
Cartographer, commercial/residential surveyor, environmental consultant, planning and development surveyor, remote sensing analyst, GIS analyst, land surveyor, surveyor tech, spatial data analyst, GIS specialist, map interpreter.
Our course-based Master of Geographic Information Systems program is a professional degree program, which includes a research component. Students intending to go on to a doctoral degree program may be better served in a thesis-based degree program (i.e., MA or MSc), even though some universities may recognize the MGIS degree as appropriate training for doctoral studies
Course-based program
Three core courses, two GIS research courses and five electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Minimum completion time 16 months; six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Four-year BA or BSc degree in Geography or in any related field that makes use of spatial data. Examples include, but are not limited to: Anthropology, Archaeology, Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Ecology, Environmental Science, Geology/Geophysics, Geomatics Engineering, History, Management, Mathematics, Political Science, Psychology, Tourism, Transportation Studies or Engineering, and Urban Studies.
Work samples
None
Documents
A statement of interest outlining the applicant’s goals, motivation for applying to the program, and research area of interest.
A C.V. or resume.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
March 1 application deadline for applications and supporting materials
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Geography
Earth Sciences Building, Room 356
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geography
Course-based Certificate in Geospatial Information Technology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary