Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geography-ma-thesis

Geography
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Engage in deep scholarship on the relationships between spaces, people and places. Graduate students admitted into the Geography program join a community of internationally recognized scholars offering one-on-one supervision and small graduate seminars. The program offers a judicious mix of course work and investigation that is tailored to meet the needs of each student's research endeavour. Faculty have extensive experience with physical and human geography, as well as geographic methods. With a campus located in Alberta's open prairies at the foot of the stunning Rocky Mountains, the University of Calgary offers students an incomparable location to pursue advanced study in Geography.
Students are normally admitted to the Fall term. However, off-cycle admissions may also be considered on an individual basis but will require alternate funding arrangements. Program funding will only be distributed in the competition for Fall admissions. Please contact the program for details.
Completing this program
Core Course:
History and Philosophy of Physical or Human Geography.
Conference:
Students will participate in the annual department conference.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include remote sensing, statistical methods, spatial analysis and modelling, fluvial geomorphology and others.
Thesis:
Students will prepare and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Cartographer, commercial/residential surveyor, environmental consultant, planning and development surveyor, teacher, planner, demographer, community developer, resource management specialist, municipal advisor, development officer.
A master’s degree in geography will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four courses and four graduate research seminars
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before the student applies for admission
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Please visit this page
for more information
Shelley Alexander
Accepting Inquiries
Human-Animal Relationships, Conservation and Geospatial Science
Darren Bender
Unavailable
Gwendolyn Blue
Accepting Inquiries
Public engagement with science and technology; Science-based controversies (climate change, genomics), Human-animal relations; More-than-human geographies
Ryan Burns
Accepting Inquiries
Urban GIS, Critical GIS, Digital Humanitarianism, Open Data, Smart Cities, Geovisualization and geovisual analytics, Geographical software studies, Geographic political economy
Dianne Draper
Unavailable
Sustainability; resources and environmental management and planning, Sustainable tourism, Parks and protected areas, Experiential education
Brent Else
Seeking Students
Air-sea interactions in the Arctic, Arctic marine carbon cycles, Remote sensing of Arctic marine environments, Arctic marine ecosystems, Improved weather observations for Arctic operations
Victoria Fast
Accepting Inquiries
Urban GIS
Andrea Freeman
Accepting Inquiries
Geoarcheology, Pedagogy in Geography and archaeology
Geoffrey Hay
Accepting Inquiries
GEOBIA - Geographic Object Based Image Analysis, Thermal Imaging: HEAT - Heat Energy Assessment Technologies, MyHEAT - Startup Company (www.myheat.ca), **Please visit these sites for more information:
Dan Jacobson
Unavailable
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A proposal describing applicant’s intended research area
A C.V
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents - apply by January 5, submission of all supporting documents due at time of application.
Online reference submission required by January 15
International applicants – apply by January 5, submission of supporting documents due at time of application.
Online reference submission required by January 15
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Geography
Earth Sciences Building, Room 356
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geography
Course-based Certificate in Geospatial Information Technology
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary