Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geomatics-engineering-phd

Geomatics Engineering
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Looking for a career in research with a great indoor/outdoor balance? Geomatics Engineering is a varied and exciting technology discipline that requires design, computational and measurement skills utilized through field work, lab experiments and computer modeling. Geomatics Engineers get to solve an engaging variety of problems in applications ranging from satellite positioning to environmental monitoring with a common attribute: spatial location. Our world-renowned Department of Geomatics Engineering offers such opportunities through the research-oriented Geomatics Engineering (PhD Thesis) program for graduate students who want to pursue a research career in academia, industry or government.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include physical geodesy, GNSS theory and applications, Earth observation for the environment, geocomputation and more.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a Thesis Proposal, Written Exam and the Field of Study (FoS) Oral Examination.
Professional Development Seminar:
Students take a professional development course on communication styles, presentation skills and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend original research at a high level and represent a distinct advance in knowledge on the subject.
Specializations
Positioning, Navigation and Wireless Location
Geodesy, Remote Sensing and Earth Observation
Digital Imaging Systems
GIScience and Land Tenure
Energy and Environmental Systems (Interdisciplinary)
Environmental Engineering (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Industry, government agencies, space agencies, research institutions and academia related to the following sectors: land and industrial surveying, mapping, land tenure, navigation, location services, aerospace, internet of things, environment and hazards, energy and natural resources, agriculture, biomedical, civil, mining, transportation, robotics, automotive, electronics, computer software.
A PhD in geomatics engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three courses and a Professional Development Seminar
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Three years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Yang Gao
Accepting Inquiries
High-Precision GNSS and GNSS/INS Integration
Derek Lichti
Accepting Inquiries
Terrestrial laser scanning, 3D range imaging, Dual fluoroscopic imaging
Kyle O'Keefe
Unavailable
Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), Satellite and Ground-based Wireless Location, Ultra-wideband Ranging, Estimation for Navigaton and Wireless Location
Emmanuel Stefanakis
Accepting Inquiries
Ruisheng Wang
Accepting Inquiries
LiDAR, 3D
Xin Wang
Accepting Inquiries
GeoAI, Spatial Data Mining, Smart Cities, Location-based Social Networks
Linlin (Lincoln) Xu
Seeking Students
AI and Machine Learning, Earth Observation, Remote Sensing, Geospatial Data Science, Environmental Monitoring
Hongzhou Yang
Seeking Students
High precision navigation , High-definition mapping , Autonomous driving
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system
Minimum education
An MSc degree or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
Successfully complete a written field of study examination and an oral examination on the thesis proposal. See
Geomatics Engineering Doctoral Candidacy Requirements
for more information.
Documents
A C.V.
A Statement of Purpose
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jul. 1 application deadline
International students: Mar. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Jul. 1 application deadline
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
For admission on July 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 1 application deadline
International students: Jan. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Geomatics Engineering
ENE 231, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.4979
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Highlights of the Anthropology program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
A success story of international cooperation
Geomatics graduate You Li's PhD is recognized by both UCalgary and Wuhan University, China
Read More
Using NASA satellites to predict forest fires
Quazi Hassan puts geomatics engineering to work making remote parts of Alberta safer
Read more
Tech startup with roots in UCalgary Geomatics Department
Trusted Positioning Inc., born out of the geomatics department, sold for $36 million
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary