Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geomatics-engineering-meng-course

Geomatics Engineering
Master of Engineering (MEng)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The MEng in geomatics engineering program gives you a competitive advantage in an increasingly global economy that is  increasingly reliant on digitized location and positioning data. This program is often completed in one or two years of full-time study, and part-time options are available. This program is one of only four in Canada, and is the largest and most internationally recognized, sparking a strong demand throughout North America for our graduates. With this graduate-level education, you will be well positioned to advance your career into management roles across a wide variety of sectors ranging from unmanned vehicles, robotics, and land and industrial surveying, to aerospace, navigation and location services, energy and natural resources, and agriculture.
We also offer this program as an accelerated, 4+1 program for students in engineering or science who would like to complete their MEng degree within one year of finishing their BSc. In their final year, undergraduate students can take up to three extra-to-degree, senior-level undergraduate or graduate courses that will count towards their master’s. As grad students, they can then complete their MEng with just seven additional courses in as little as one year.
MEng Internship
This program offers an 8-to-16 month full-time paid internship with companies across Canada to help students gain engineering work experience in a diverse economy. Limited spots are available.
Learn more about this exciting internship opportunity by visiting the
MEng Internship Page.
Completing this program
Core courses:
10 courses can be selected from topics including: Advanced Topics in Sensor Web and Internet of Things, Digital Image Processing and GNSS Theory and Applications; Spatial Databases and Data Mining, Optical Imaging Metrology, Earth Observation for the Environment, Atmospheric Effects on Satellite Navigation Systems, Geocomputation and more.
Accelerated MEng (4+1 program):
Students entering their final year of a BSc in engineering or science can take up to three extra-to-degree, pre-approved, senior undergraduate or graduate courses. These course credits will transfer towards the MEng in geomatics engineering, leaving students with only seven courses remaining in their master’s degree. Interested students – who have completed their third year of undergraduate studies – can email
meng@ucalgary.ca
to receive more information on pursuing this option.
Outcomes
Industry, government agencies, space agencies, research institutions and academia related to the following sectors: land and industrial surveying, mapping, land tenure, navigation, location services, aerospace, internet of things, environment and hazards, energy and natural resources, agriculture, biomedical, civil, mining, transportation, robotics, automotive, electronics, computer software.
A course-based master’s degree in geomatics engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
1-2 years full-time; 6 years maximum; part-time available
Supervisor
Advisor assigned at the time of registration.
Fees and funding
MEng degrees are self-funded.
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree in geomatics, civil or electrical and computer engineering, or in physics, computer science, geography, or an equivalent degree, from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
One official copy of your final transcript (and degree certificate if degree is not clearly stated on transcript) in signed, sealed envelope from institution attended.
Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded to the online application for initial evaluation purposes. Admission offers, however, are conditional upon receipt of official transcripts.
Official transcripts can be mailed to us directly from the institution, or they can be mailed to you directly and you can send them to us yourself
We will not accept unsealed official transcripts as official
References
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
We encourage you to apply early as this program receives a high volume of applications and reaches capacity quickly. We send offers to qualified applicants on a rolling basis.
For admission on September 1:
March 1: Deadline for International applicants
May 1: Deadline for Domestic applicants
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Geomatics Engineering - MEng Office
Schulich School of Engineering
ENC 205, Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geomatics Engineering
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Highlights of the Geomatics program
These stories from those involved in the program show what it's like to be involved yourself.
Tech startup with roots in UCalgary Geomatics Department
Trusted Positioning Inc., born out of the geomatics department, sold for $36 million
Read More
Making the internet of things a universal force
Steve Liang, an Avenue Magazine's Top 40 under 40, is standardizing connectivity
Read more
Using NASA satellites to predict forest fires
Quazi Hassan puts geomatics engineering to work making remote parts of Alberta safer
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary