Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geospatial-information-technology-certificate

Geospatial Information Technology
Certificate
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Certificate in Geospatial Information Technology will give you marketable and specific career expertise that builds and diversifies your technical skills.
It enables graduates from any academic discipline that uses spatial data to supplement your education with practical knowledge about the technology of geospatial applications. You will build the foundational knowledge and skills necessary to understand, analyze, and interpret spatial information across a broad range of applications with the most current, available information technology, including geographic information systems, remote sensing, spatial modelling and digital mapping.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will take courses on digital mapping and geographic visualization, fundamentals of geographic information science, fundamentals of remote sensing, and applied statistics and spatial analysis.
Outcomes
Graduates have the skill set and knowledge to use geospatial concepts to work within interdisciplinary teams that include geospatial technology professionals, such as GIS analysts, remote sensing technicians, and cartographers.
Many different industries and sectors use GIS and remote sensing technologies, including oil and gas, information technology, insurance, forestry and environment, government, health and medical, advertising, and urban planning.
Furthermore, organizations in each of these sectors can benefit from managers and staff who are literate in geospatial technologies and who can lead teams or liaise between departments.
The Geospatial Information Technology Certificate program will provide students with a graduate-level credential.
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four months
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
Transcripts
Current curriculum vitae or résumé
A statement of interest outlining your goals, motivation for applying to the program, and particular area of interest within the field of geospatial information technology (e.g., remote sensing, geographic information systems, spatial modeling, geospatial analytics).
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
MELAB
score of 80, or higher
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
March 1 application deadline
International students:
March 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Geospatial Information Technology
Department of Geography
Earth Sciences Building, Room 356
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website here
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geography
MA
MGIS
MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
MEng
MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary