Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geoscience-msc-thesis

Geoscience
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This is a full-time degree with an expected completion time of two years, typically requiring a bachelor's degree in the same or a closely related discipline. Formed in 1963, the Department of Geoscience is a vibrant cornerstone of the University of Calgary – and is also the largest geoscience department in Canada. We are internationally and nationally recognized for strengths in seismic geophysics, petroleum geology, hydrology, petrology and regional tectonics. Our vision is an improved understanding of Earth systems through innovative and impactful geoscience research, interdisciplinary learning and discovery, empowered and inspired teaching, and effective communication that not only raises our profile as a geoscience centre of excellence but also creates a brighter future for our world. Many thesis-based students participate in field schools during their time in the program, gaining valuable training in geological field methods in a range of possible locations.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include hydrogeology, flow in porous media, petrologic methods, structural methods, basin studies, geochemistry and others.
Field Schools:
Many students participate in field schools for 12-16 days in late summer or early spring. Activities include orienteering, mapping surficial deposts, measuring sections in sedimentary rocks, and mapping geologic structures in places like the Canadian Shield, Alberta prairies, Rocky Mountains and deserts of southwest USA.
Thesis:
Students will prepare and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Post-Secondary Teaching and Research, Oil and gas , Resource exploration , Resource Management, Environmental Consulting, Geo Hazards, Renewable Energy, Policy and Regulation.
A master’s degree in geoscience will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Benjamin Barst
Accepting Inquiries
Ecotoxicology, One Health, Environmental contaminants, Stable isotope analyses, Food webs
Edwin Cey
Accepting Inquiries
Hydrogeology, Vadose Zone Hydrology and Preferential Flow, Groundwater-Surface Water Interaction, Numerical Simulation, Subsurface Microbial Transport, Expert Review and Regulatory Input
Jan Dettmer
Unavailable
Seismology
David Eaton
Accepting Inquiries
Seismology, Induced Seismicity, Passive Seismic Monitoring, Distributed Acoustic Sensing, Physics-Informed Machine Learning
Eva Enkelmann
Accepting Inquiries
Tectonics, Thermochronology, Geochronology, Basin Evolution
Rob Ferguson
Seeking Students
Geophysics
Charles Henderson
Accepting Inquiries
Upper Paleozoic and Triassic Sequence Biostratigraphy and Conodont Paleontology
Stephen Hubbard
Accepting Inquiries
Sedimentary Systems, Clastic Sedimentology, Basin Analysis
Steve Larter
Accepting Inquiries
Energy transition and technology
Bernhard Mayer
Accepting Inquiries
Geochemistry
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Four-year Bachelor of Science degree or equivalent. An Honours degree in geology or geophysics, or a field related to geophysics, such as physics or mathematics, is preferred.
Work samples
None
Documents
A concise statement outlining the applicant’s research interests and reasons for wishing to attend the University of Calgary
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Geoscience
Earth Sciences Building Room 118
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220-3254
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.8600
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geoscience
Course-based MSc
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary