Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/geoscience-msc-course

Geoscience
Master of Science (MSc)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Geoscience offers non-thesis master’s degrees in both geology and geophysics. The program is suitable for full-time and part-time students and is a perfect fit for people with undergraduate degrees in geoscience who may already be in the workforce and want to pursue an advanced degree without taking a leave of absence. Students working in the industry may choose to complete an industrial capstone project and work with an industry partner.
The interdisciplinary specialization in reservoir characterization is offered jointly with the Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include hydrogeology, flow in porous media, petrologic methods, structural methods, basin studies, geochemistry and others.
Geophysics Concentration:
Four electives, four core geophysics courses; topics may include seismic signal analysis, inverse theory and others.
Geology Concentration:
At least seven courses in geology or geophysics with a minimum of six at the graduate level.
Research Project:
All students including geology and geophysics concentrations write, present and defend a research report.
Specializations
Reservoir Characterization
Outcomes
Post-Secondary Teaching and Research, Oil and gas , Resource exploration, Resource Management, Environmental Consulting, Geo Hazards, Renewable Energy, Policy and Regulation.
A course-based master’s degree in geoscience is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Nine courses, including a minimum of five graduate-level courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is not required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Four-year Bachelor of Science degree or equivalent. An Honours degree in geology or geophysics, or a field related to geophysics, such as physics or mathematics, is preferred.
Work samples
None
Documents
A concise statement outlining the applicant’s research interests and reasons for wishing to attend the University of Calgary.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
Please note: Applications are not currently being accepted for this program
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Geoscience
Earth Sciences Building Room 118
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220-3254
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary