Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/graduate-certificates-advanced-engineering-practice

Advanced Engineering Practice
Certificate
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Certificates in Advanced Engineering Practice I and II are each 12-unit graduate-level certificates which will provide advanced, specialized and industry-relevant engineering knowledge to baccalaureate-holding engineers. This program is ideal for those looking to gain new skills to advance their engineering career.
For current engineers, this program will increase knowledge specific to their areas of expertise and will strengthen advanced technical and professional development skills. Certificates are awarded in any of the four specializations: Machine Learning Engineering, Software Engineering, Process Engineering Sustainability and Process Simulation Analytics. This program aims to remove barriers to advanced employment, as those enrolled will have the option to participate in a Work Integrated Learning (WIL) experience through which they will develop hands-on skills and establish valuable industry connections.
Completing this program
Each certificate is a 12-unit graduate level program. Each of its four specializations (Machine Learning Engineering, Software Engineering, Process Engineering Sustainability and Process Simulation Analytics) can be taken either full-time or part-time. The program is designed to support students as they complete the certificate within the expected time of one year, or the maximum allowable time of two years. Students must apply to the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Engineering Practice II within 2 years from the beginning of the Advanced Engineering Practice I program. Courses will be in-person, with a minimum achievement of a B- as the passing grade.
Specializations
Machine Learning Engineering
Software Engineering
Process Engineering Sustainability
Process Simulation Analytics
Reliability Engineering and Predictive Maintenance
Mechatronics Engineering
Outcomes
Influenced by the
Ministerial Statement on Quality Assurance of Degree Education in Canada
the list of expected learning outcomes for the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Engineering Practice I are as follows:
Depth and breadth of knowledge: students will acquire specialized knowledge by building on their existing skills and develop critical awareness of current problems and new insights in the forefront of their academic discipline.
Conceptual awareness and/or knowledge of research: students will apply analytical, interpretative and expository skills.
Application of knowledge: students will be expected to address complex technical issues both systematically and creatively based on established principles and techniques.
Communication skills: students will mitigate issues by clearly articulating potential solutions to both specialist and non-specialist audiences.
Awareness of limits of knowledge: students will understand the broader implications of applying knowledge to particular situations and audiences.
Engineering profession and society: students will broaden their knowledge of principles of ethics and responsibility.
Course-based program
12 Units (4 courses)
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
In-person
Time commitment
One year with a maximum completion time of two-years
Supervisor
A Coordinator is assigned to each cohort in the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Engineering Practice I and II.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
For the Process Engineering Sustainability and Process Simulation Analytics specializations a degree in Chemical Engineering is required.
For the Machine Learning Engineering and Software Engineering specializations a degree in Software Engineering is required.
For the Reliability Engineering and Predictive Maintenance and Mechatronics Engineering specializations a degree in Mechanical Engineering or Electrical Engineering is required.
Other relevant backgrounds may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Minimum of one year of work experience in engineering or a closely related field, or at least one year of internship under a professional engineering in an engineering company.
Work samples
None
Documents
Resume or CV
Reference letters
N/A
Test scores
None
Alternate routes to admission
In exceptional circumstances, individuals that don’t meet these requirements, but have significant life achievement, may be considered for admission to this program. The candidate must provide the program director with evidence demonstrating the potential to successfully undertake this certificate program.  Such candidates may also be required to participate in an in-person interview with the program director.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
June 30 application deadline
International students:
February 28 application deadline
To accommodate extended study permit processing times for students from Iran, we will be accepting applications from Iranian applicants for the Fall intake until
December 1
. This deadline is intended to allow sufficient time for review and study permit application.
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
October 31 application deadline
International students:
May 31 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
MEng Graduate Program Office
Schulich School of Engineering Block C, Room 205
University of Calgary
403-220-2001
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5732
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary