Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/greek-and-roman-studies-phd

Greek and Roman Studies
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Research in Greek and Roman studies is based on the many writings and artifacts that have survived from ancient times and have been rediscovered. These range from everyday materials and records of human living to classic masterpieces of literature and art. The aim of this doctoral program is to train research-minded students, already armed with original ideas and initiative, to become inspiring teachers and insightful professional scholars. In our small and vibrant department, you will get the access and attention you need from our faculty of internationally recognized scholars. Students can take advantage of the department's reference library and extensive database. Opportunities exist for cross-disciplinary study with related programs like religious studies.
Completing this program
Core Course:
A course on research and professional training (not counted toward the student's GPA).
Directed Studies:
Four courses in Greek and Latin texts, or in introductory language classes for graduate students.
Reading List and Proposal:
Students prepare a core reading and dissertation reading list and submit a dissertation proposal.
Additional Courses:
Four graduate seminar courses, two of which may be outside the department if appropriate to the student's specialization.
Language Requirement:
Reading knowledge of two of the three following modern languages into English: French, German or Italian.
Candidacy and Dissertation:
Students must pass a candidacy exam, and must submit and defend an original dissertation.
Outcomes
Academic teaching and research, curatorial positions in museums, archival work in libraries.
A PhD in greek and roman studies is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
One core course, four seminars and four studies in Greek/Latin texts
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Marica Cassis
Accepting Inquiries
Syriac History and Archaeology, Byzantine History and Archaeology, Muslim-Christian interaction in Mesopotamia, Gender theory in Byzantine Archaeology, Byzantine Anatolia
Lindsay Driediger-Murphy
Unavailable
Roman religion, Early Christianity and its interactions with non-Christian religions, Ancient divination, Greek and Roman historiography
Lisa Hughes
Unavailable
Roman Art and Archaeology
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
While the minimum GPA requirement is 3.0, successful applicants typically have a GPA of 3.5 or greater on a 4.0 point system.
Minimum education
Master of Arts or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Additional languages
Competence in reading French, German or Italian must be acquired either before or during the program.
All research areas require proficiency in reading Greek and/or Latin.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Online Application Opens
- October 1.
January 15:  Application Deadline
January 25:  Supporting Documents and Reference Deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Classics and Religion
Social Sciences Building, Room 558
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Greek and Roman Studies
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Archaeology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Art
Thesis-based MFA
English
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Religious Studies
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary