Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/information-security-and-privacy-misp-course

Information Security and Privacy
Master of Information Security and Privacy (MISP)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Cybersecurity threats are the critical issue facing our digital infrastructure, and the projected shortage of professionals equipped to tackle the increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks leaves all industries and sectors vulnerable. The MISP program will prepare the next generation of students and working professionals to defend our software and network systems against known and future threats; in addition to state-of-the-art technical expertise, students in the MISP will have the opportunity to gain professional experience through the internship option as part of this degree.
This program integrates the most recent research and best practices in information security, while being flexible in its approach to ensure that students’ learning can quickly adapt to rapid technological advancements. Students will be able to apply the theories they learn to practice, and solve problems and challenges faced by industry and society as technology continues to advance.
Completing this program
Complete 8 courses (24 credits total) in 2 of the 3 Certificate program options:
Data Privacy
Network Security
Software Security
And an internship
or
capstone project (equivalent to 6 credits), for 30 credits total.
Outcomes
Technology sector, business start-ups, computer science research, government, information technology.
A course-based degree is usually considered a final degree.
The Master of Information Security and Privacy is a continuous program with no scheduled break.
Course-based program
Eight core courses, and an internship or capstone project.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion for direct-entry full-time students is 12 months; maximum four years.
Expected completion time via the laddered certificate pathway is two years; maximum four years from the start of the first certificate.
Supervisor
An Academic Advisor is assigned to each cohort.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
4-year undergraduate degree from a recognized institution.
Successful completion of an undergraduate course (or provide evidence of equivalent knowledge) in each of the following computer science areas:
Computer programming with understanding of execution environments;
Algorithms and data structures;
And either
: Operating systems
or
Computer networks.
Work samples
None
Documents
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Optional - Letter of Intent
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
If an applicant holds a Bachelor, Master, or PhD degree from an institution that instructs in English, the proof of English language proficiency required is waived.
If an applicant's previous post-secondary education was taught in a different language, proof of English Language Proficiency is required and may be fulfilled in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 86 with no section less than 20 (Internet-based).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 with no section less than 6.0 (Academic version).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 with no section less than 60.
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of B+ in each course.
Deadlines
Fall Admission
Application Start:
September 1
Deadline for International applicants:
March 1
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents
: This program is not open for direct entry. Students interested in this program can proceed through the laddered process, starting with the certificate. Please contact the program with any questions.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Information Security Graduate Program
Science A 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Science's website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computer Science
Thesis-based PhD
Data Science and Analytics
Certificate, Data Science and Analytics
Diploma, Data Science and Analytics
MSc, Data Science and Analytics
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary