Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/kinesiology-phd

Kinesiology
Doctor of philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Kinesiology is not just the study of movement. We are the length and breadth of the human condition, from the joy of competition, to the steps taken by cancer patients on their road back to wellness. We are in schools encouraging healthier habits and in labs researching the mysteries of why one child becomes obese while another doesn’t. Our graduate students are mentored by some of the top professors and researchers in the field in their original investigations, with the goal to advance the study of kinesiology, and to create leaders whose work will have an impact on society. Sharing knowledge is vital, and we work closely with other faculties, like the biomedical researchers in the Schulich School of Engineering and the mental health researchers in the Cumming School of Medicine.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include nutrition for performance, applied exercise physiology, statistical techniques, muscle mechanics and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original thesis.
Candidacy:
Students will submit a research proposal and complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Specializations
Biomechanics
Exercise & Health Physiology
Health, Exercise and Sport Psychology
Innovation in Pedagogy and Sport Performance
Neuro-Motor Psychology & Motor Learning
Nutrition, Metabolism & Genetics
Rehabilitation
Socio-Cultural Aspects of Sport & Physical Activity
Sport History
Sport Injury Epidemiology
Sport Medicine
Outcomes
Academia, Research career, teaching (secondary and post-secondary), health care, health coach consulting, research associate, sporting careers (administration, coaching, sport psychology, strength and conditioning coach), injury prevention and rehabilitation, community/municipal programming.
A PhD in kinesiology is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four year full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Kinesiology complex from anywhere. Experience all that the Kinesiology program has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore one of the top Kinesiology programs in North America without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Kinesiology Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
William Bridel
Unavailable
Socio-Cultural Studies of Sport, Physical Activity, and the Body
S. Nicole Culos-Reed
Unavailable
Exercise and Cancer Survivorship
Dr. Patricia (Tish) Doyle-Baker
Accepting Inquiries
Menstrual Health Biomarkers and Biosensors; Sport Science; Female Athletes
Brittany Edgett
Accepting Inquiries
Exercise Physiology, Energy Metabolism, Erythropoiesis, Sex Differences
W. Brent Edwards
Accepting Inquiries
Musculoskeletal Biomechanics
Carolyn Emery
Accepting Inquiries
Injury Epidemiology, Injury Prevention, Concussion, Pediatric Rehabilitation
Leigh Gabel
Accepting Inquiries
Growth and Development
Walter Herzog
Accepting Inquiries
Neuro-Biomechanics, Biomechanics
Matt Jordan
Unavailable
Exercise Physiology, Neuromuscular Control, Resistance Training, Sport Injury, Sport Performance
Sarah Kenny
Unavailable
Dancers as Artistic Athletes, Benefits of Dance for General Population
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year undergraduate degree and completion of a thesis based masters degree.
Work samples
None
Documents
Written confirmation of external funding in accordance with policies of the Faculty of Kinesiology Graduate Program
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Mar. 1 application deadline
For admission on July 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 1 application deadline
International students: May 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jul. 1 application deadline
International students: Jul. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Kinesiology graduate program
Kinesiology B, Room 139B
2500 University Drive N.W.
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5183
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Faculty of Kinesiology
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Community Medicine
Course-based MCM
Disability and Community Studies
Course-based MDCS
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary