Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/kinesiology-mkin-course

Kinesiology
Master of Kinesiology (MKin)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This course based degree is designed for students who wish to gain advanced theoretical and practical skills in exercise physiology to prepare them for careers in chronic disease management, health and wellness programs, occupational evaluation, and high performance sport.
The program involves extensive hands-on learning components, as well as integrative practicum placements.
Students who successfully complete this degree are able to take the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology’s certified exercise physiologist (CSEP-CEP) exam.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include nutrition for performance, exercise physiology, muscle mechanics, sport psychology, training strategies and more.
Capstone Event:
Students will perform a final oral presentation in conjunction with the Seminar in Applied Exercise Physiology (III).
Specializations
Applied Exercise Physiology
Outcomes
Exercise Physiologist, Coach, Kinesiologist, Teacher, Personal Trainer, Strength and Conditioning Trainer/Coach, Exercise Specialist, Access to a variety of healthcare programs (eg. Medicine, Nursing, Social Work, Physiotherapy, Athletic Therapy).
A course-based master’s degree in kinesiology is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
12 core courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
16 months continuous; six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Kinesiology complex from anywhere. Experience all that the Kinesiology program has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore one of the top Kinesiology programs in North America without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Kinesiology Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree with a minimum grade of "B" or 3.00 in each of the following undergraduate prerequisite courses (or equivalents): Anatomy, Exercise Physiology, Biomechanics, Exercise and Sport Psychology, Statistics
Work samples
None
Documents
(Optional) A CV with demonstrated ability to be self-motivated and capable of independent study as shown in undergraduate studies, volunteer work and/or work experience in exercise science areas will be considered.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Feb. 1 application deadline
International students: Feb. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Kinesiology graduate program
Kinesiology B, Room 139B
2500 University Drive N.W.
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5183
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Faculty of Kinesiology
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based PhD
Kinesiology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Community Medicine
Course-based MCM
Disability and Community Studies
Course-based MDCS
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary