Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/kinesiology-msc-thesis

Kinesiology
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Our faculty has many faces, but one mission: Better health and an active lifestyle for everyone. We are the science of health and life, a science so big that it spans many faculties and disciplines. We may be engineers, physicians, nurses or molecular biologists – but we share a vision to create a healthier society. And we look to our students to contribute to this vision through their original research, and to become leaders. In classrooms, in labs, and in our communities. Our students have the opportunity to be mentored by some of the top minds in the field of kinesiology as they work to create a healthier society, by preventing injury, reversing unhealthy habits and by helping people to return to the activities they enjoy as quickly as possible after injury or disease.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will take one graduate course in statistics and one graduate course in research design.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Biomechanics
Exercise & Health Physiology
Health, Exercise and Sport Psychology
Innovation in Pedagogy and Sport Performance
Neuro-Motor Psychology & Motor Learning
Nutrition, Metabolism & Genetics
Rehabilitation
Socio-Cultural Aspects of Sport & Physical Activity
Sport History
Sport Injury Epidemiology
Sport Medicine
Wearable Technology
Outcomes
Research career (industry, university, health), teaching, health care, health coach, consulting, research associate, sporting careers (administration, coaching, sport psychology, strength and conditioning coach), injury prevention and rehabilitation, community/municipal programming.
A master’s degree in kinesiology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD in Kinesiology.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Kinesiology complex from anywhere. Experience all that the Kinesiology program has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore one of the top Kinesiology programs in North America without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Kinesiology Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Saied Jalal Aboodarda
Accepting Inquiries
Neuromuscular fatigue, Exercise-induced pain
William Bridel
Unavailable
Socio-Cultural Studies of Sport, Physical Activity, and the Body
S. Nicole Culos-Reed
Unavailable
Exercise and Cancer Survivorship
Brittany Edgett
Accepting Inquiries
Exercise Physiology, Energy Metabolism, Erythropoiesis, Sex Differences
W. Brent Edwards
Accepting Inquiries
Musculoskeletal Biomechanics
Carolyn Emery
Accepting Inquiries
Injury Epidemiology, Injury Prevention, Concussion, Pediatric Rehabilitation
Alexandra Giancarlo
Seeking Students
Indigenous sports histories; racialized communities and physical activity; sport and cultural identity; sport and recreation at Indian Residential Schools
Walter Herzog
Accepting Inquiries
Neuro-Biomechanics, Biomechanics
Matt Jordan
Accepting Inquiries
Exercise Physiology, Neuromuscular Control, Resistance Training, Sport Injury, Sport Performance
Sarah Kenny
Unavailable
Dancers as Artistic Athletes, Benefits of Dance for General Population
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree with an appropriate academic background for the area of specialization.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Mar. 1 application deadline
For admission on July 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 1 application deadline
International students: May 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jul. 1 application deadline
International students: Jul. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Kinesiology graduate program
Kinesiology B, Room 139B
2500 University Drive N.W.
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5183
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Faculty of Kinesiology
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit their website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Community Medicine
Course-based MCM
Disability and Community Studies
Course-based MDCS
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary