Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/landscape-architecture

Landscape Architecture
Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Landscape Architecture?
The Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) in the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape program is designed to engage with the critical sociocultural and ecological challenges of place-making, climate change and resilience. Our MLA is intended as a program for the 21st century - to be leaders and to train leaders in becoming catalysts for positive local and global change.
The MLA is a three-year course-based program consisting of a foundation year plus two years at the Master’s level, and we'll be seeking accreditation through the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA). As a professional degree program, curriculum design and methods of delivery reflect the CSLA accreditation requirements.
Requirements
Requirements for this program can be found at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/
You can also see the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape's
Bachelor Design in City Innovation.
​​The Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) is strategically positioned to engage with the critical sociocultural and ecological challenges of place-making, climate change and resilience in the 21st century. Combining lecture and studio-based course work with opportunities to study in Melbourne and Barcelona, the MLA’s interdisciplinary model allows students to learn along with planners and architects, developing a comprehensive understanding of all aspects of the built environment.
​​Beverly Sandalack
PhD, FCSLA, MCIP, RPP — Associate Dean (Academic)
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Visit the SAPL website