Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/landscape-architecture-mla-course

Landscape Architecture
Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Come and be part of Canada’s newest school of landscape architecture. Launched in 2015,
SAPL offers Alberta’s only professionally accredited Landscape Architecture degree and
the program is creating leaders in sustainability and design. Landscape architects provide innovative solutions to environmental and urban challenges. The profession is growing to include a wide range of areas at different scales from residential to regional. This includes urban design, public spaces, parks and recreation, climate change adaptation, water resources management, transportation, and habitat restoration. Our full-time faculty includes professional landscape architects, planners, architects and landscape ecologists, whose overlapping expertise contributes to a strong curriculum that combines a solid foundation in the field with 21st-century design challenges.
You will hone most of your skills in our unique interdisciplinary design studios, tackling real-world projects to develop integrated design solutions. In one of your senior semesters, you could also learn in an international context.
Completing this program
Foundation Year:
Required for applicants without a landscape architecture undergraduate degree.
Core Courses:
Studio courses in each term ; other topics include site technology, history and theory, winter city design and more.
Additional Courses:
Four elective courses.
Outcomes
Landscape architectural engineering, architectural and planning firms; private corporations with planning or design departments; federal, provincial, regional, and municipal agencies; development companies; historic preservation authorities; faculties and departments of landscape architecture, architecture, art, and planning.
The course-based Master of Landscape Architecture degree is accredited
by Landscape Architectural Accreditation Council (LAAC) of the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA)
. Students can also continue their academic studies by pursuing the Master of Environmental Design (MEDes) degree.
Course-based program
Eight foundation year courses; thirteen core and three elective courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time (in addition to foundation year); six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point scale, over the last two years of study (a minimum of 20 courses or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Documents
Applicants are required to submit a
digital application package
consisting of 1) a digital portfolio, 2) a resume/CV, and 3) a statement of interest. These documents should be submitted as a single .PDF document with a cover letter (include your full name) and a table of contents for clarity. The package should be uploaded to the Student Centre following submission of an online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the digital portfolio, resume, and statement of interest can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/mla
.
Read portfolio requirements
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
Foundation year
Applicants with previous related design degrees (e.g. a Bachelor of Landscape Architecture) may have some or all of the foundation year courses waived. Applications will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, this review will require supporting documentation such as course outlines. An assessment of these prerequisite requirements will be made by an admissions committee and applicants will be informed in offers of admission which, if any, courses at the Foundation level will be required.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 135* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Architecture
Course-based March
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Planning
Course-based MPlan
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary