Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/languages-literatures-and-cultures-ma-course

Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Master of Arts (MA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This program has three streams - applied linguistics, literature and/or film studies, and transcultural studies.  Students in each stream enjoy personal attention and interaction with professors with far-reaching subject-area expertise who embrace a range of theoretical approaches. The applied linguistics stream focuses on language acquisition, language learning and teaching, and sociolinguistics. Students may choose to undertake experimental studies in any of these areas.  The focal languages for applied linguistics are French, Chinese, German and Spanish. The stream in literature and film studies offers students an opportunity to delve into the study of literary and cinematic productions in French, German and Spanish.  Students will acquire theoretical and critical expertise in their chosen field of study. The stream in transcultural studies, the only one offered in Canada, examines the inner differentiation and complexity of cultures from the geographic areas where French, Arabic, Chinese, German, Italian, Japanese, Russian and Spanish are spoken. This program has an interdisciplinary emphasis, and students acquire a high degree of cultural literacy. All of these streams will provide students with a broad set of advanced research and communication skills, specialized knowledge, and enhanced language proficiency.
Please note:
this program is not intended for students interested in performing research primarily on texts written in English or on English as a Second Language. Applicants in these fields are encouraged to consider programs in Educational Research.
Completing this program
Core courses:
Students will take a required course on Additional Language Pedagogy, and a research methods course on Applied Linguistics or Literary and Cultural Studies.
Capstone essay and exam:
Students complete a written essay of approximately 20 pages to form the basis of the Capstone Examination.
Specializations
French
Spanish
Please visit the
Languages, Literatures and Cultures departmental webpage
for more information on specializations.
Outcomes
Graduates will be prepared for a profession in the post-secondary sector, cultural organizations, education, finance, government services, immigration, public relations, publishing, translation and interpretation, tourism and travel, advertising, or communications and media.
A course-based master’s degree in languages, literature and culture is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
10 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Three years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree or equivalent from a recognized institution, with adequate academic background in one of the fields of modern languages, linguistics, literary, film or cultural studies or another closely related field.
Work samples
An academic writing sample 3-5 pages: a term paper, research paper or other writing, which the applicant considers representative of his or her best work.
Documents
A statement of intent: 250 ­word (minimum) statement of research interest including research topic and the reasons for wishing to pursue graduate work in this program.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Language
A sufficiently high level of oral and written competence in the target language (a recommended minimum of CEFR level B2, ACTFL Intermediate ­High, or equivalent.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
January 15 application deadline for applications and supporting materials
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Languages, Linguistics, Literatures and Cultures
Craigie Hall, Room C 310
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Communication and Media Studies
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Educational Research
Thesis- based EdD
Thesis- based MA
Course-based MEd - Int
Course-based MEd - Spec
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
English
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Linguistics
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Music
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MMus
PhD
Philosophy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Religious Studies
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary