Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/law-phd

Law
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The PhD program in Law gives qualified students the opportunity to engage in sustained research in an area of interest to them, under the supervision of our diverse, energetic faculty members.
The Faculty of Law includes endowed chairs in natural resources and business law. Our graduate programs in energy and environmental law are world-renowned. We have experts in a wide variety of areas of law, including international environmental law, internet and cybersecurity law, business law, and legal theory and history.
The Faculty of Law is a home of the
Journal of Environmental Law and Practice
and for our acclaimed law blog,
ABlawg
.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Graduate seminar in legal research and methodology, graduate seminar in legal theory, and independent, supervised research.
Thesis/Dissertation Proposal
Written Field of Study Examinations
Oral Candidacy Examination
Completion of Original Thesis/Dissertation:
Approximately 300 pages in length.
Outcomes
The PhD program is for students passionate about research and writing in a focused area of law, and who may be interested in an academic or research career.
A PhD in law is usually considered a final degree; some graduates go on to post-doctoral research.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis/dissertation and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three core courses.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Lyndsay Campbell
Accepting Inquiries
Gideon Christian
Accepting Inquiries
Law and technology; artificial intelligence and law; environmental impact of new and emerging technologies
Greg Hagen
Accepting Inquiries
Technology and Intellectual Property Law; Legal Theory & Philosophy
Lorian Hardcastle
Accepting Inquiries
Health law and policy, tort law
Howard Kislowicz
Accepting Inquiries
Emily Laidlaw
Accepting Inquiries
Technology and the law
Sharon Mascher
Unavailable
Climate Change Law
Michael Nesbitt
Accepting Inquiries
Criminal law, national security law
Evaristus Oshionebo
Accepting Inquiries
Natural resources law and regulation
Bryce Tingle
Accepting Inquiries
Corporate Governance, Entrepreneurial Law, Corporate Finance
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
Minimum GPA of 3.3 out of 4.0 on JD, LLB or equivalent Law degree, plus 3.0 out of 4.0 on Masters of Law of equivalent. Generally, successful applicants will have a GPA of at least 3.7 out of 4.0 in their Masters degrees.
International applicants should visit
this website
to determine whether or not their GPAs meet program minima.
Minimum education
An LLM or other relevant and appropriate master's degree.
Work samples
Writing sample required.
Documents
Applicants must provide a 10-page statement describing their research interests and propose a dissertation project.
A C.V.
Writing Sample: Should be approximately 10-30 pages long. It must be your own original writing. It should be reasoned scholarly or professional work that serves to demonstrate to a committee of professors that you have a well-developed capacity for writing, analysis and research. It may be published or unpublished. Be prepared to explain in your application the circumstances under which you wrote it. Do not submit writing that you co-authored with someone else: application files relying on co-authored work will be treated as incomplete. Do not submit any material that is confidential or to which others might have claims of privilege, e.g. confidential or privileged memoranda prepared for clients or employers.
You will be asked to identify two referees. Ensure that the contact information you provide is accurate. At least one, and preferably both, of your references should be provided by individuals who have worked with you at the Master’s level and is well familiar with your past work and research proposal.
Transcripts from all post-secondary institutions that you have attended, including any that you may currently be attending. Information about transcripts is available
HERE
Reference letters
Two academic.
Test scores
None
Supervision and Funding
Applicants must identify a potential supervisor in their application.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (minimum of 25 on the reading and writing components).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section and a reading and writing band minimum of 7.0).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum score of 70 on writing and reading sections and 60 in all other sections).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in the Academic Writing and Composition course, a minimum grade of “A-” in the Research Writing and Form course, and a minimum grade of “B+” in all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Dates and Deadlines
For admission September 1:
Application portal (below) opens September 1.
Application deadline: December 1.
Deadline for submission of supporting documents and reference letters: December 15.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
The Faculty of Law
Law Graduate Programs
MFH 2380, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.210.8718
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit their website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Law
Course-based LLM
T
hesis-based LLM
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary