Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/law

Law
Juris Doctor (JD)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Law?
As one of our law students, you'll benefit from a small cohort, one of the consistently highest articling placement rates in the country, and the option to combine your JD with an MBA, an MPP, or to earn an American law degree at the same time with our International Energy Lawyers Program, a joint JD/JD offered with the University of Houston Law Center. Our innovative Calgary curriculum will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need for future professional success, preparing you to join a constantly changing and challenging legal services market, and professional opportunities that extend beyond traditional legal practice. Previous study is required - You cannot enter the JD program directly from high school. The most up-to-date admission requirements can be found at
law.ucalgary.ca
.
Meeting and getting to speak with practitioners, professors, and upper year students helped me get a broader understanding of the many different career paths available in the legal profession. These interactions also gave me insight into the deep camaraderie within the school and the profession as a whole.
Daphne W
JD’19
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
Faculty of Law
Murray Fraser Hall, Room 2380
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.4155
Visit the Faculty site