Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/linguistics-ma-thesis

Linguistics
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Linguistics graduate program offered by the School of Languages, Linguistics, Literatures and Cultures trains researchers in the core areas of theoretical linguistics—such as syntax, semantics, phonology, phonetics and morphology—as well as in language acquisition, historical linguistics, and psycholinguistics. Students take six courses and are expected to complete an MA thesis based on their original research within two years. Students benefit from a low student-to-faculty ratio that ensures personalized attention to each student's academic needs and research goals. Students are guaranteed funding for $20,000/year for two years, and our MA graduates regularly place in top PhD programs around the world.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
An introductory course, a thesis research course, Advanced Syntactical Analysis and Advanced Phonological Analysis.
Language:
Knowledge of a language other than English demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Graduate Studies Committee.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include semantics, morphology, language acquisition, historical linguistics, quantitative modelling and others.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original thesis.
Outcomes
Linguistics MA graduates also have the skills to pursue a variety of non-academic career paths. Students interested in the computational side of linguistics may work on speech recognition, speech synthesis, artificial intelligence, natural language processing or computer-mediated language learning. Students interested in language education may teach English as a Second language or develop educational materials, train language teachers, or work on assessment methods for more effectively teaching language. Linguists may also work in translation or interpretation. Field linguists work on the preservation of endangered languages by conducting fieldwork, documenting a language, or establishing literacy programs for endangered language communities. Linguists also work in speech-language pathology, audiology, publishing, law, national security, medicine, editing, market research, and the film industry.
A master’s degree in linguistics will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD in linguistics.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four core courses and two electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum; part-time available
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Angeliki Athanasopoulou
Seeking Students
Child Language Acquisition, Laboratory Phonology
Darin Flynn
Accepting Inquiries
Phonology, Canadian Indigenous languages
Elizabeth Ritter
Accepting Inquiries
Syntax, Morpho-syntax, Hebrew, Blackfoot
Dimitrios Skordos
Seeking Students
First Language Acquisition - Semantics/Pragmatics
Dennis Ryan Storoshenko
Accepting Inquiries
Syntax, Experimental Syntax/Semantics
Stephen Winters
Accepting Inquiries
Phonetics, Speech Perception
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Significant undergraduate training in linguistics, normally including at least one course in syntax and one course in phonology.
Work samples
A sample of previous work in linguistics or a related field (e.g., an Honours undergraduate thesis, or a course paper).
Documents
A statement of purpose specifying the applicant’s research interests and reasons for wishing to pursue a Master of Arts degree at the University of Calgary
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
January 15 application deadline for applications and supporting materials
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Languages, Linguistics, Literatures and Cultures
Craigie Hall, Room D 310
University of Calgary (Main Campus)
2940 University Way NW, Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Linguistics
PhD
Languages, Literatures and Cultures
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary