Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/management-phd

Management
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Outstanding students pursuing excellence should consider the Management (PhD Thesis) program. The degree gives them the opportunity to undertake challenging research under the supervision of highly skilled faculty members, giving students the boost they need to make a significant and lasting contribution to the field of management. The Haskayne School of Business helps students achieve this goal by providing a collaborative, supportive and intellectually stimulating research environment for the discovery and dissemination of knowledge applicable to the business community. The Haskayne funding package is one of the most generous among Canadian business schools.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Topics include Conceptual Framework of the Enterprise and Research Development.
Areas of Study:
Students complete a minimum of five courses in their area(s) of study; students may have a major and minor area of study.
Research Methods and Statistics - Stream A:
This stream includes courses in econometrics and operations management.
Research Methods and Statistics - Stream B:
This stream includes courses in multivariate analysis, research methodology and methods and more.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal and both oral and written candidacy exams.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Accounting
Business Technology Management
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Environmental Management/Sustainable Development
Finance
Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources
Marketing
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Risk Management and Insurance
Strategy and Global Management
Outcomes
Consulting, Financial Services, Management, Business Analysis, Marketing and Sales, Teaching, Professor.
A PhD in managment is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses and ten additional courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Mathison and Scurfield Halls from anywhere. Experience all that the Haskayne School of Business has to offer for interested prospective graduate students from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Haskayne School of Business Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
James Agarwal
Accepting Inquiries
Marketing; Consumer Psychology, Marketing Ethics; Global Marketing; Marketing Research, Statistical Methodology
Marco Bijvank
Accepting Inquiries
Giovani da Silveira
Accepting Inquiries
Jim Dewald
Accepting Inquiries
Jinhee Huh
Accepting Inquiries
Mohammad Keyhani
Accepting Inquiries
Digital Entrepreneurship Technology, NoCode Entrepreneurship, Strategic Entrepreneurship, Generativity
Pengfei Li
Accepting Inquiries
industry dynamics, economic geography, international business, strategy
Barrie R. Nault
Accepting Inquiries
Business Technology Management
Scott Radford
Accepting Inquiries
Chad Saunders
Unavailable
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Documents
A current C.V.
A personal statement outlining objectives, intent and commitment to a research program
Test scores
Completion of the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT*) with a recommended minimum score of 650, with high scores on both verbal and quantitative subcomponents. (Many successful applicants have earned scores of 700 and above). As an alternative to a GMAT score, results on the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) will be considered. Overall GRE test score in the 85th percentile is the recommended minimum.
Supervisor
Supervisors must have availability and resources for the area in which the student wishes to study.
Minimum education
An MBA degree or equivalent.
Reference letter
Two
Work samples
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Haskayne School of Business
Scurfield Hall, Room 343
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5685
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary