Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/management-mba-course

Management
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Business Administration program is open to students with a four-year degree or equivalent in any discipline, and is designed to accommodate professionals seeking to earn one of the most widely recognized credentials in the private, not-for-profit and public sector career paths. The Evening MBA is a three-year program designed for students who work full-time, with classes two evenings per week, and one intensive week per semester. The Daytime MBA is a two-year, full time, traditional MBA program that offers several ways for students to customize their experience, including internships, study abroad, specialization options, and case competitions.
Completing this program
Required Courses:
Topics may include accounting, business technology management, human resources, operations management and others.
Courses for BComm Graduates:
For students approved for a BComm exemption, requirements normally will be:
Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Management Studies, Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources, and 8 elective courses.
Specialization:
Students may specialize in finance, entrepreneurship and innovation, marketing, project management, global energy management and sustainable development, or real estate studies.
Specializations
Business Intelligence and Data Analytics
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Finance
Management Analytics
Marketing
Project Management
Global Energy Management and Sustainable Development
Real Estate Studies
Combined MBA
The Haskayne School of Business offers
combined degrees
with the faculties of Law, Nursing, Cumming School of Medicine, School of Public Policy, and School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape. To optimize the financial investment and time commitment, students are awarded degrees by both faculties without completing the full complement of courses in both programs.
Students can choose to do a combined degree with another faculty, such as:
JD/MBA (Juris Doctor)
MBT/MBA (Master of Biomedical Technology)
MD/MBA (Doctor of Medicine)
MPP/MBA (Master of Public Policy)
MPlan/MBA (Master of Planning)
Outcomes
Consulting, Management, Finance, Marketing.
A course-based master’s degree in management is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
20 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
The day MBA option normally takes 20 months to complete (from first registration), while the evening option normally takes three years. Maximum time limit is six years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Mathison and Scurfield Halls from anywhere. Experience all that the Haskayne School of Business has to offer for interested prospective graduate students from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Haskayne School of Business Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Documents
A current résumé
A 250-word response to each of “How, considering your career progress to date, does an MBA fit in with your future career goals?” and “When thinking of your own personal successes, were they a result of your own personal skills or your ability to work with others? Please describe”
Additional requirements
Applicants may be interviewed by a member of the Admissions Committee as part of the application screening process.
Applicants should have the equivalent of two-years worth of appropriate work experience.
Test scores
Completion of the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT*) with a recommended minimum score of 550 or an equivalent Graduate Record Examination (GRE) for the Haskayne MBA with high scores on both verbal and quantitative subcomponents.
Reference letter
Two
Work samples
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents
April 1 (Accelerated MBA)
June 1 (Daytime and Evening MBA)
International students
February 1 (Accelerated MBA)
March 1 (Daytime)
For admission on January 1
Canadians and permanent residents
November 15 (Accelerated MBA)
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Haskayne School of Business
Scurfield Hall, Room 343
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5685
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Data Science and Analytics
Diploma
Certificate
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary