Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/management-mmgmt-course

Management
Master of Management (MMgmt)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Designed for recent graduates of non-business fields, the Haskayne Master of Management program provides students with the opportunity to supplement their undergraduate field of interest with business skills and knowledge. Upon graduation, students will possess an interdisciplinary skillset that will provide the comprehensive edge needed to successfully launch their career.
Throughout the 10 months of intensive, full-time study, students will develop a broad knowledge of business essentials from accounting and marketing to logistics and entrepreneurial thinking. Upon graduation, students will be prepared to begin their careers in positions requiring interdisciplinary approaches to problem solving and a curiosity for exploring alternatives to standardized approaches.
Beyond the classroom, students will have exciting opportunities to make connections with the Calgary business community and grow their skills through networking events, live case studies, mentorship, career development opportunities and more.
Combined Master of Management/Master of Science
The Haskayne School of Business offers students the opportunity to take a combined dual degree program with the Technical University of Munich (TUM). This dual degree results in two graduate degrees, the Master of Management from the University of Calgary and the Master of Science from TUM.
Students apply to the dual degree program through the University of Calgary but must meet admission requirements of both institutions.
Completing this program
Required courses:
Topics may include accounting, business communications, entrepreneurship, operations management, business technology management and others.
Courses for BComm Graduates:
For students approved for a BComm exemption, requirements normally will be:
Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Management Studies, Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources, and 8 elective courses.
Outcomes
Business Analyst, Project Coordinator, Marketing Associate, Business Development Coordinator
A Master of Management degree is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Equivalent of 11 required courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected time for completion in this program is 10 months. Maximum time to complete is 2 years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Mathison and Scurfield Halls from anywhere. Experience all that the Haskayne School of Business has to offer for interested prospective graduate students from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Haskayne School of Business Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last 60 units of university-level courses at the time of application (Graduate Management Admission Test or GMAT not required). Students with an admission GPA between 2.70 and 3.0 may be considered for admission based on a combination of admission GPA and an acceptable GMAT score. Admission is based on the following equivalent achievement score: [(GPA x 200) + GMAT] >/= 1150.
Preparatory courses
It is recommended that applicants complete an undergraduate course in economics, statistics, mathematics or psychology. Admitted students will be provided with online preparatory course work through the Haskayne School of Business prior to starting specific courses in the program.
Minimum education
A four-year non-business baccalaureate degree.
Work experience
A maximum of 3 years since completion of an undergraduate degree.
Note: Students applying to the Master of Science program as part of the dual degree at TUM must have 12 months of full-time work experience.
Documents
A 250-word response to each of two questions as part of the application process.
Participation in an interview (upon request).
Current Resume
Test scores
None
Reference letter
None
Work samples
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents
June 1
International students
February 1
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Haskayne School of Business
Scurfield Hall, Room 343
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5685
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary