Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/management-emba-course

Management
Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Transforming Canada’s future by educating the next generation of business leaders is the goal of the Haskayne Executive MBA (EMBA) program. Increasing complexity, competitiveness and uncertainty is causing experienced professionals to see the need to enrich their skills and deepen their professional networks. The EMBA program is aimed at mid/senior career professionals across a variety of industries. It is a two-year program, with courses on alternating Fridays and Saturdays (one week on/one week off), and one intensive week per semester. The program allows students to work full-time while completing their degree, and ends with a two-week international study tour.
Completing this program
Foundation Courses:
11 courses in accounting, business technology management, marketing, human resources and organizational dynamics and more.
Finance Specialization:
Students complete four courses in finance, including three doctoral-level courses.
Integrative Courses:
Three course in management studies, business and environment and management studies.
Specializations
Finance
Outcomes
Finance, Consulting, Management, Marketing.
A course-based master’s degree in management is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
17 courses and three electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion time is two years. Six years is the maximum amount of time to complete.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Mathison and Scurfield Halls from anywhere. Experience all that the Haskayne School of Business has to offer for interested prospective graduate students from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Haskayne School of Business Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
GPA of at least 3.00 on a 4.0 point scale.
For applicants with a GPA below 3.0: An additional requirement of a score of 500 or higher on the GMAT or completion of the GMAC
Executive Assessment
with a minimum score of 140.*
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Applicants without a four-year baccalaureate degree may be admissible with a combination of over 10 years of professional work experience and an additional requirement of a score of 500 or higher on the GMAT or 140 on the GMAC
Executive Assessment.
*
At least ten years’ progressive work experience AND a score of 500 or higher on the GMAT exam or a score on the
Executive Assessment
.
*The final admission decision rests with the Dean of the Faculty of Graduate Studies. See
A.1 Qualifications
(Exceptional Circumstances).
Documents
A current résumé
A 250-word response to each of “How, considering your career progress to date, does an MBA fit in with your future career goals?” and “When thinking of your own personal successes, were they a result of your own personal skills or your ability to work with others? Please describe”
Additional requirements
Applicants may be interviewed by a member of the Admissions Committee as part of the application screening process.
Applicants should have at least seven years of work experience, a number of years of which must have carried management or professional responsibility.
Test scores
Completion of the GMAT with a recommended minimum score of 500 or completion of the GMAC Executive Assessment with a minimum score of 140.
Work samples
None
Reference letter
Two
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents
June 1
International students
February 1
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Haskayne School of Business
Scurfield Hall, Room 343
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5685
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary