Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/management-dba

Management
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
One of the first of its kind in Canada, the Haskayne Doctor of Business Administration will prepare graduates to address complex strategic and organizational challenges and to become thought-leaders in their field of interest. Developed for senior business leaders, the DBA is designed to build effective research, critical thinking and analytical skills required for the successful leading of organizations.
The Haskayne DBA combines graduate-level courses with a rigorous research component, including a thesis based on independent inquiry and under the guidance of a supervisor assigned at the start of the program. Upon graduation, students become practitioner-scholars and are equipped with the skills to make superior decisions for the benefit of their organizations  through the application of scholarly knowledge and the use of evidence.
Completing this program
Alternative Course Delivery:
The DBA is a full-time program that allows you to complete the degree while continuing your career.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Candidacy:
Students will reach Candidacy after successful completion of all of the courses, a written field of study exam and defense of a research proposal.
Outcomes
Strategic management, Management consulting, Applied research, Teaching
A Doctor in Business Administration is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Eight core courses and one additional elective course
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Combo in-person/online
Time commitment
Four years (six years maximum)
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Mathison and Scurfield Halls from anywhere. Experience all that the Haskayne School of Business has to offer for interested prospective graduate students from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Haskayne School of Business Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
James Agarwal
Accepting Inquiries
Marketing; Consumer Psychology, Marketing Ethics; Global Marketing; Marketing Research, Statistical Methodology
Marco Bijvank
Accepting Inquiries
Giovani da Silveira
Accepting Inquiries
Jim Dewald
Accepting Inquiries
Jinhee Huh
Accepting Inquiries
Mohammad Keyhani
Accepting Inquiries
Digital Entrepreneurship Technology, NoCode Entrepreneurship, Strategic Entrepreneurship, Generativity
Pengfei Li
Accepting Inquiries
industry dynamics, economic geography, international business, strategy
Barrie R. Nault
Accepting Inquiries
Business Technology Management
Scott Radford
Accepting Inquiries
Chad Saunders
Unavailable
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.50 GPA on a 4.0 point system.
Minimum education
A post-baccalaureate degree (MBA or relevant business-focused Master’s degree). Students with credential in an area other than business may require to complete a qualifying period to gain general business background before beginning the doctoral course requirements.
Work samples
None
Documents
Current CV
Completion of a series of essays including a personal statement outlining objectives, intent and commitment to a research program
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
Work experience
At least 10 years of management experience, including seven years at the senior management or executive level, or at least five years’ experience as lecturer/instructor in a relevant field in a college or university program.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
January 2025 Entry
Round 1
: Deadline for completed applications, including all documentation (references, transcripts, etc.), is May 1, 2024 (decision by June 30, 2024).
Round 2
: Deadline for completed applications, including all documentation (references, transcripts, etc.), is August 1, 2024 (decision by September 30, 2024).
International Application Deadline:
Completed applications, including all documentation (references, transcripts, etc.) must be submitted no later than May 1, 2024 (decision by June 30, 2024).
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Haskayne School of Business
Scurfield Hall, Room 227
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.3803
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Management
Thesis-based DBA
Course-based EMBA
Course-based GEMBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based MBA
Course-based MMgmt
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary