Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/master-physician-assistant-studies-mpas-course-based

Master of Physician Assistant Studies
Masters
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) program at the University of Calgary aspires to empower students with essential knowledge and skills, fostering an inclusive community of collaborative and compassionate Physician Assistants (PA). Our mission focuses on lifelong learning and ethical practice, aiming to advance structural competence and diversity in health care, ultimately preparing graduates for transformative roles in the evolving health care landscape of Alberta and beyond.
The program is a 93-unit, course-based, graduate degree program that is the first of its kind in Alberta. The program educates PAs — highly skilled health-care professionals who work under the supervision of licensed medical practitioners in a variety of settings including hospitals, health-care clinics and physician offices.
The program will provide students with a holistic educational experience that will not only train technically competent practitioners, but also prepare them to enter practice aware of the social determinants of health and equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility (EDIA) issues in the health-care system, as well as the health care needs of specific populations in Canada. MPAS graduates will be eligible for the national PA certification exam and qualify for registration with the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Alberta.
Completing this program
In the first year, students engage in three primary courses that repeat throughout the fall, winter, and spring/summer terms.
Course included are:
PA Fundamentals: This course lays the groundwork for a comprehensive understanding of essential clinical knowledge, covering a broad range of topics necessary for effective clinical practice.
Foundations of Practice: This course is designed to provide students with a deep dive into the multifaceted aspects of healthcare practice. It focuses on developing a holistic understanding of patient care, ethical considerations, and the interprofessional dynamics within healthcare.
Clinical Skills: A critical component of the first year, this course equips students with practical skills necessary for clinical practice. It involves hands-on training and simulation exercises to prepare students for real-life patient interactions and procedures.
The second year is characterized by an immersive clinical experience, allowing students to apply their knowledge and skills in real-world settings. The year includes core clinical rotations, two elective rotations, and a longitudinal Foundations of Practice half-day.
Outcomes
Graduates of the MPAS program are well-prepared to enter clinical practice as Physician Assistants across various healthcare settings. They can expect to engage in patient care, diagnosis, management, and interprofessional collaboration within the scope of the PA profession in Canada.
Note: To practice as a PA in Canada, graduates must pass the national PA Entry to Practice Certification Examination (PA Cert Exam), written upon the successful completion of a Canadian PA program recognized by the Physician Assistant Certification Council of Canada (PACCC).
Course-based program
26 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
In-person
Time commitment
2 years
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum admission grade point average of 3.20 (on the University of Calgary four- point system); this is based on the last two years of the undergraduate degree consisting of a minimum of 60 units.
Minimum education
Completion of a four-year baccalaureate degree from an institution recognized by the University of Calgary.
Completion of the following course work at the post secondary level with a minimum grade of B (3.00 on a 4.00 scale or equivalent) in each of these courses:
Minimum of 3.0 units of Human Anatomy
Minimum of 3.0 units in Human Physiology
Work samples
A personal statement (500 words maximum).
Documents
A personal statement (500 words maximum).
Reference letters
2
Test scores
Completion of the Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics (Casper®).
Casper is an online evaluation that assesses non-cognitive skills and interpersonal characteristics that are important for success in the MPAS program. For more information about the Casper exam, including how to register, please visit: https://acuityinsights.app/casper/.
Additional Requirements
Indigenous Education Requirements
We recognize the importance of building knowledge and skills for future Physicians Assistants to work with Indigenous peoples in safe ways. Baseline knowledge is critically important and as such, applicants admitted into the program must complete an
Indigenous education requirement which can be met in one of the following ways:
Completion of the Indigenous Canada MOOC (online). Completion should be evidenced by certificate or user screenshot.
University of Calgary Indigenous Relations Training Program (in-person or online).
Completion should be evidenced by certificate.
Successful completion of a minimum 3-unit course in Indigenous studies from a post- secondary institution as evidenced on an official transcript. If the content of the course is not clearly evidenced by a transcript, students may be required to provide a copy of the course outline.
A degree, diploma, or certificate in Indigenous studies. Completion should be evidenced on an official transcript.
Admitted students will be required to provide proof of course completion by the start of the program.
Citizenship requirement
Being a Canadian citizen or permanent resident, or individual with refugee status in Canada.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 105 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 70).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of A- in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 145 (with no sub-score below 125). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
Please visit the
MPAS webpage
for information on application deadlines.
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Master of Physician Assistant Studies Program Office
G204 Health Sciences Centre 3330 Hospital Dr NW
Calgary AB T2N 4N1
University of Calgary
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit their website
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary