Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/math-and-statistics-msc-thesis

Mathematics and Statistics
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Intellectual curiosity, a passion for problem-solving and a drive to conduct independent research are the hallmarks of our mathematics and statistics graduate students. Our faculty have helped many graduates succeed in moving on to leading doctoral programs. By the time you graduate, you will have contributed to current research in your chosen area of specialization. This might be in a pure mathematical area such as combinatorics, discrete mathematics, geometry, logic, number theory and cryptography, analysis, and mathematical physics, or in theoretical research in probability and statistics. Or you may work in industrial mathematics and operations research, with application in biology and medicine, energy markets and mathematical finance, geoscience, medical imaging, oil and gas, software and computer applications, biomedical and industrial statistics, environmental risk, actuarial science and big data analysis.
Completing this program
Mathematics Courses:
Topics may include measure and integration, analysis, algebraic geometry, number theory, scientific modelling and more.
Seminars:
In addition to required courses, students register in a research seminar in either actuarial science, biostatistics, mathematics, or statistics (depending on student's specialization).
Statistics Courses:
Topics may include probability, estimation, hypothesis testing and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Mathematics
Statistics
Biostatistics (Interdisciplinary)
Actuarial Science
Mathematical Finance
Outcomes
Universities and colleges, Government of Canada (Canadian citizens only), banking and finance, information technology and cybersecurity, energy, risk management and insurance, health, pharmaceuticals, environmental management, quantum computing, data analytics, medical imaging.
A master’s degree in math and statistics will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Minimum of five courses, or four if completing the program in one year
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Mina Aminghafari
Seeking Students
Machine/Statistical Learning, Time series Forecasting, Data science, Functional data Analysis, Clustering and co-clustering
Tracey Balehowsky
Seeking Students
Geometric inverse problems, Transformation optics and cloaking , Geometric flows, Particle kinematics
Kristine Bauer
Seeking Students
Algebraic topology and homotopy theory
Karoly Bezdek
Accepting Inquiries
Combinatorial, Computational, Convex, and Discrete Geometry with Applications
Elena Braverman
Accepting Inquiries
Differential equations, dynamical systems
Thierry Chekouo
Seeking Students
Statistics/Biostatistics
Clifton Cunningham
Accepting Inquiries
Langlands Program
Rob Deardon
Seeking Students
Paul Gordon
Unavailable
Nanopore Sequencing Data Analysis, Phylogenetic Interference
Matthew Greenberg
Seeking Students
Statistics, Data Science, Machine learning
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Bachelor’s degree, or its equivalent, in the subject of the specialization to which the application is made, or a closely related area.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
Mathematical Science Room 462
612 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4V8
403.220-6299
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.8600
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Mathematics and Statistics
Course-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Economics
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Electrical and Software Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Philosophy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary