Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/mechanical-and-manufacturing-engineering-phd

Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students looking to become world-leading experts as they push the boundaries of knowledge in their field should pursue a research-based Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (PhD Thesis) degree. With the support of leading researchers, students will perform innovative and cutting-edge research, publishing their knowledge in peer-reviewed manuscripts and disseminating their findings through everything from conferences to peer-reviewed publications and technical papers. The program usually takes three years of full-time study following a master’s degree, or four years following a bachelor’s degree. PhD students are typically funded through the duration of their studies under various mechanisms offered by the faculty, department, and supervisor.
Completing this program
Manufacturing Engineering:
Topics may include computer integrated manufacturing, optimization methods with robotics, CAD/CAM/CAE and more.
Mechanical Engineering:
Topics may include combustion processes, mechanics of compressible flow, instrumentation, mobile robotics and more.
Research Seminar:
Prior to candidacy, PhD students present at the annual Mechanical Engineering Graduate Student Conference.
Additional Courses:
Students without an MSc complete Numerical Methods for Engineers and/or others.
Pipeline Engineering Specialization:
Students wishing to complete the Pipeline Engineering Specialization must include 2 approved courses with a Pipeline Engineering project.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Pipeline Engineering
Engineering, Energy and Environment (Interdisciplinary)
Environmental Engineering (Interdisciplinary)
Energy & Environmental Systems (Interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Consulting, research and development, forensic engineering, management, process control.
A PhD in mechanical engineering is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses minimum with conference presentation
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Three years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Mahdis Bisheban
Seeking Students
Control and Modelling of Dynamical Systems, including Aircraft, Unmanned Aerial and Underwater Vehicles, Application of Machine Learning on Control and Modelling of Dynamical Systems, Predictive Maintenance and Anomaly Detection in Manufacturing
Bob Brennan
Accepting Inquiries
Self-Manageable and Adaptive Cyber-Physical Systems for Manufacturing Automation, Chair in Design Engineering
Marie Charbonneau
Unavailable
Humanoid Robotics, Contact-Based Human-Robot Interaction, Physical Human-Robot Collaboration
Ke Du
Accepting Inquiries
1) Air pollution process, 2) Environmental monitoring techniques
Philip Egberts
Accepting Inquiries
Nanotribology, Ultra-high vacuum surface science, Lubricants and Coatings
Leo Fang
Seeking Students
Turbulent Combustion Modelling , Manifold Reduction Techniques , Computational Fluid Dynamics , Spray Modelling, Data driven/machine learning techniques for turbulent flows
Salvatore Federico
Accepting Inquiries
Continuum Mechanics, Soft Tissue Biomechanics
Peter Goldsmith
Accepting Inquiries
Robotics, Control Systems, Human-Computer Interfaces, Mathematics, Education
Schuyler Hinman
Seeking Students
CFD for sustainable energy sources including biofuels, Conceptual design of high-speed aerospace vehicles for re-entry, Novel drone application and design
Craig Johansen
Seeking Students
High-Speed Aerodynamics and Propulsion
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc degree or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students:  Jan. 15 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students:  May 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Schulich School of Engineering
Room 505, The Mechanical Engineering Building Room, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.4153
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Schulich School of Engineering
Canadian Natural Resources Limited Engineering Complex
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5732
Visit the Schulich School of Engineering website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Petroleum only)
Course-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sustainable Energy Development
Course-based MSc
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary