Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/medicine

Medicine
Doctor of Medicine (MD)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Medicine?
As a doctor of medicine student, you'll start working with patients within your first few weeks of the program. Ours is one of the few three-year doctor of medicine degrees in North America.  We’re committed to patient-centered and presentation-based learning. We also offer a scholarship program, Pathways to Medicine, which supports the enrolment and success of future MD students from traditionally under-represented groups throughout Alberta. Requirements for Medicine can be found at:
https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/mdprogram/future-students/admissions
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1
Please visit faculty contact page for specific department phone numbers.
Visit the Faculty site