Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/medical-science-msc-thesis

Medical Science
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
For over 40 years the graduate program in Medical Science has prepared students for independent scientific careers in academic and non-academic settings. Graduates of the master's program have gone on to doctoral studies or jobs in industry at leading institutes across Canada and around the world.
One of the University of Calgary's largest graduate programs, Medical Science offers specializations ranging from cancer biology and critical care to molecular and medical genetics (but training is not limited to these specialties). Our program is supported by collaborations with related programs throughout the Cumming School of Medicine and the University of Calgary.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics will be determined according to the student's research area.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Seminars:
Students will participate in a research in progress seminar and journal club relevant to their program.
Research Proposal:
Students must defend a written research proposal to their supervisory committee.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Cancer Biology
Critical Care Medicine
Mountain Medicine and High Altitude Physiology
Joint Injury & Arthritis Research
Molecular & Medical Genetics
Pathologists' Assistant (currently not accepting applications)
Physiology
Biomechanics
Biomedical Ethics
Surgery (In co-operation with the Department of Surgery)
Medical Imaging (Interdisciplinary)*
* See the
Calendar section on Interdisciplinary Specializations
for further information.
Outcomes
Academic researchers, education, medicine, government agencies, health organizations, and the private sector/industry; biotechnology start-up companies, clinical trials, research-oriented positions in pharmaceutical/biotech companies and Fortune 500 businesses.
A master’s degree in medical science will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Jean Addington
Unavailable
Risk for Serious Mental Illness
Todd Anderson
Accepting Inquiries
Atherosclerosis, lipids, endothelial function
Philip Barber
Seeking Students
Stroke, Dementia, Cognition, MRI, CT, biomarkers
Herman Barkema
Accepting Inquiries
Cheryl Barnabe
Unavailable
Rheumatoid Arthritis Epidemiology and Health Services Research, Indigenous Health
John EA Bertram
Accepting Inquiries
Dynamics of locomotion
Kathryn Birnie
Accepting Inquiries
Pain; Pediatric Pain; Child Health; Patient-Oriented Research; Implementation Science; Knowledge Mobilization
Janice Braun
Accepting Inquiries
Molecular Chaperones and Neurodegeneration
Signe Bray
Accepting Inquiries
Linda Carlson
Accepting Inquiries
Psychosocial Oncology
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on Sept. 1
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on Jan. 1
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Medical Science - Graduate Studies
Health Sciences Centre, HSC G341C
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Medical Science
PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Biomedical Technology
Course-based MBT
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Gastrointestinal Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Pathologists' Assistant
Course-based MDPA
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary