Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/microbiology-and-infectious-diseases-phd

Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Creating independent scientists and critical thinkers is one of the goals of the Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (PhD Thesis) program. Students work with faculty in conducting diverse research, ranging from lung infections in cystic fibrosis and systemic infections such as sepsis, to molecular diagnostics and therapeutics and vaccine development. The program is associated with several research groups, including the Immunology, Bacterial Pathogenesis and Gastrointestinal Research Group, as well as the Inflammation Research Network. Ambitious students will find many opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration, and will enjoy studying in the heart of a vibrant, young city that is one of the cleanest in the world and on the doorstep of Alberta's Rocky Mountains.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include medical microbiology and microbial diseases, gene expression in bacteria and others.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Seminar:
Students will present a public seminar based on the results of their thesis research.
Research proposal:
Students must defend a written research proposal to their supervisory committee.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Pharmaceutical industry – researcher, project manager; academia, including post-doctoral research; government, clinical microbiology, consulting, public health.
A PhD in microbiology and infectious disease is usually considered a final degree; many graduates pursue post-doctoral research.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Three courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before the student applies for admission
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
George Chaconas
Unavailable
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology of Lyme Disease
Eduardo Cobo
Accepting Inquiries
Innate immunity in the gut
Carla Coffin
Accepting Inquiries
Hepatitis B Virus Infection
Jennifer Corcoran
Accepting Inquiries
Chronic Virus Infections and Cancer
Jeroen De Buck
Accepting Inquiries
Rebekah DeVinney
Unavailable
Extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli ST131 (ExPEc ST131) pathogenesis and ecology., E. coli and acute hemorrhagic gastroenteritis (HGE) in dogs, Vibrio parahaemolyticus interactions with molluscan and mammalian hosts
Markus Geuking
Unavailable
Microbiota Immune Crosstalk
Mark Gillrie
Accepting Inquiries
Infectious Diseases, Tissue Engineering, Innate Immunology
Craig Jenne
Accepting Inquiries
Infectious Disease
Nargis Khan
Accepting Inquiries
Immunology, Infectious Diseases, Innate Immunity, Trained Immunity
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: June 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Microbiology, Immunology and Infectious Diseases
HSC G345A, Health Sciences Centre
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
Thesis-based MSc
Biological Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Gastrointestinal Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Kinesiology
Course-based MKin
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary