Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/military-security-and-strategic-studies-mss-thesis

Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Master of Strategic Studies (MSS)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Centre for Military, Security and Strategic Studies at the University of Calgary is committed to promoting and developing excellence in military, security and defence studies and is one of the leading centres of excellence in military and strategic studies in North America. This thesis-based master’s program places the study of war, defence, and security issues within the context of past and present human experience. With flexible programs, leading scholars in a variety of disciplines, and generous funding opportunities, we strive to ensure our students achieve success in their pursuits.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Classics of Strategy, Advanced Analysis of International Relations and Strategic Studies.
Block Week Course:
Students will complete Military and Strategic Studies: Questions and Methods in the week preceding their first term.
Additional Courses:
May include arctic security, Canadian military studies, U.S. security, ethics and morality, intelligence, and other topics.
Thesis:
Students are required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Banking, Police Service, Government, Military Procurement, Oil and Gas, NATO, Advocacy Groups.
A master’s degree in military and strategic studies will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Gavin Cameron
Accepting Inquiries
Beau Cleland
Accepting Inquiries
Empire and Non-State Violence in North America
Alexander Hill
Accepting Inquiries
Soviet military history, The Second World War, Soviet military and naval policy, The Soviet Union and southern Africa
Rob Huebert
Accepting Inquiries
Thomas P,  (Tom) Keenan
Accepting Inquiries
Social Implications of Technology, Privacy and Security, Smart Communities, Technocreepiness, Cybersecurity and Cyberwarfare, Non-financial Applications of the Blockchain
Frank W Stahnisch
Accepting Inquiries
History of Medicine and the Life Sciences, History and Philosophy of the Neurosciences, History of Physiology, Medical Visualizations throughout History, History of Public Mental Health and Psychiatry
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.4 GPA on a 4.0 point system.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
A writing sample
Documents
A research proposal
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Centre for Military, Security & Strategic Studies
Social Sciences 856
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Course-based MSS
PhD
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary