Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/music-ma-thesis

Music
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Deepen your skills through intensive study in all aspects of music, including history, theory, practice, electroacoustic media, musicology, multimedia, sonic arts, sound spatialization, and more. The program encourages students to explore integrated approaches to performance practice, interdisciplinary research and creative activity. The School of Creative and Performing Arts holds over 80 concerts per year. Students will have a unique opportunity to experience and perform music in the Rozsa Centre`s Eckhardt-Gramatté Hall, one of Western Canada's premiere recital facilities.
Completing this program
Diagnostic Tests:
Diagnostic tests in music history and theory will be given at the start of the program.
Core Courses:
Students must complete a graduate course in either Music Theory, Composition, Sonic Arts or Music History and Literature. Students must also take courses in Research Techniques and Bibliography of Music.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include musicology, composition, electroacoustic music, computer music, theory and others.
Language:
Students will be required to demonstrate reading knowledge of one or more languages other than English (German is recommended).
Comprehensive Exam:
Students will complete a comprehensive oral exam encompassing all areas of the chosen field, following the completion of course work.
Thesis:
Students will complete a substantial research project in the form of a thesis.
Specializations
Musicology
Outcomes
Music Teacher, Professor, Instrumental Clinician, Researcher, Performer (soloist, ensemble or orchestral), Conductor, Director, Composer, Technologist, Computer Music Programmer/Designer, Arts and Media Computing, Arts Event or Policy Management.
A master’s degree in music will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two core courses and six electives
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Allan Gordon Bell
Accepting Inquiries
Composition
Jani Parsons
Seeking Students
Music Performance, Chamber Music, Piano Pedagogy and Education
Laurie Radford
Accepting Inquiries
Composition and Sonic Arts
Rod T. Squance
Accepting Inquiries
Music Performance, Ethnomusicology
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Bachelor of Music degree (or equivalent).
Work samples
A research essay or paper of approximately 10-15 pages on a topic in music history or theory prepared during or subsequent to the applicant’s undergraduate course work.
Documents
A one page letter detailing the applicant's reasons for pursuing graduate study
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Creative and Performing Arts
Craigie Hall CHD 100
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5422
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts (Fine Arts)
Social Sciences Building, Room 102
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.3580
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Music
Thesis-based MMus
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary