Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/music-phd-thesis

Music
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
​Hone your talents under the direction of distinguished faculty members at the School of Creative and Performing Arts. The school provides a wide range of opportunities for intensive study in composition, electroacoustic media, musicology, music history, multimedia, sound spatialization, sonic arts and more. Students are encouraged to explore an integrative approach to performance practice, interdisciplinary research and creative activity. The School of Creative and Performing Arts holds over 80 concerts per year. Students will have a unique opportunity to experience and perform music in the Rozsa Centre`s Eckhardt-Gramatté Hall, one of Western Canada's premiere recital facilities.
Completing this program
Core Course:
Research techniques and Bibliography of Music.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include musicology, composition, electroacoustic music, computer music, theory and others.
Music Education Specialization:
Requires an interdisciplinary course designed by the student and supervisor.
Thesis:
Students specializing in Music Education will complete a substantial research project.
Specializations
Composition*
Music Education
Musicology*
Sonic Arts*
Specializations listed with an * are currently suspended and not accepting applications
Outcomes
Music Teacher, Professor, Instrumental Clinician, Researcher.
A PhD in music is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successful defend in an open oral defense/.
Courses
Minimum six courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Allan Gordon Bell
Accepting Inquiries
Composition
Laurie Radford
Accepting Inquiries
Composition and Sonic Arts
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A recognized Master's degree or equivalent.
Documents
A one page letter detailing the applicant's reasons for pursuing graduate study
Work samples
Music education: One or two extended research essays.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Creative and Performing Arts
Craigie Hall CHD 100
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5422
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts (Fine Arts)
Social Sciences Building, Room 102
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.3580
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Music
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MMus
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary