Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/music-mmus-thesis

Music
Master of Music (MMus)
Thesis/Performance-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Join peers committed to deepening the mastery of their chosen disciplines. Students will learn from distinguished faculty members at the School of Creative and Performing Arts. The school provides intensive study in history, theory, practice, electroacoustic media, musicology, multimedia, sonic arts, performance, music education and more. It also encourages students interested in integrative approaches to performance practice, interdisciplinary research and creative activity. The School of Creative and Performing Arts holds over 80 concerts per year. Students will have a unique opportunity to experience and perform music in the Rozsa Centre`s Eckhardt-Gramatté Hall, one of Western Canada's premiere recital facilities.
Completing this program
Composition:
Seminar in Theory and Composition, Research Techniques and Bibliography of Music, Composition, three electives.
Performance:
Students must complete a graduate course in either Music Theory, Composition, Sonic Arts or Music History and Literature. Students will also take Research Techniques and Bibliography of Music, two Advanced Performance Practicums, four electives.
Thesis/Project:
Students will complete a thesis, recital, performances or a similar substantial project which is applicable to their program.
Specializations
Composition
Conducting*
Music Education
Performance
Sonic Arts
Specializations listed with an * are currently suspended and not accepting applications
Outcomes
Music Teacher, Professor, Instrumental Clinician, Researcher, Performer (soloist, ensemble or orchestral), Director, Composer, Technologist, Computer Music Programmer/Designer, Arts and Media Computing, Arts Event or Policy Management.
A master’s degree in music will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis/performance-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis (which may be interpreted as a performance or other creative project, depending on specialization)
Courses
Six to eight courses, depending on specialization
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Five years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Allan Gordon Bell
Accepting Inquiries
Composition
Jani Parsons
Seeking Students
Music Performance, Chamber Music, Piano Pedagogy and Education
Laurie Radford
Accepting Inquiries
Composition and Sonic Arts
Rod T. Squance
Accepting Inquiries
Music Performance, Ethnomusicology
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A completed Bachelor of Music degree (or equivalent). Must include study in your area of specialization.
Documents
A one page letter detailing the applicant's reasons for pursuing graduate study
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
Work samples
Performance
A live audition or video/audio recording. Repertoire for the audition must contain representative works from a variety of historical periods and must demonstrate an advanced level of technical accomplishment. Recordings should be approximately 20-30 minutes in length. Live auditions are scheduled for early February.
Composition
A portfolio of at least three recent compositions, together with recordings (where available). Applicants wishing to specialize in electroacoustic composition must submit recordings.
Sonic arts
A portfolio of recent sonic arts creative and/or research projects. A research paper.
Music education
An essay on a topic in Music Education prepared during or subsequent to the applicant’s undergraduate work. A CV demonstrating two years of successful teaching experience or equivalent professional involvement in music education.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Creative and Performing Arts
Craigie Hall CHD 100
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.5422
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts (Fine Arts)
Social Sciences Building, Room 102
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.3580
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Music
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Computational Media Design
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary