Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/natural-resources-energy-and-environmental-law-cert

Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
In the heart of Canada's energy capital, our Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law program is recognized by LLM Guide as one of the top 10 energy law programs in the world. The Certificate will give practicing lawyers an in-depth understanding of the legal aspects of the transition to a low-carbon economy, mining law, renewable energy law, water law, environmental ethics and much more.
Our Faculty of Law is one of the strongest in Canada in energy and environmental law, and our library has abundant resources in these areas. These resources are rounded out with our work with the Canadian Institute of Resources Law, one of the leading centres of expertise on legal and trade issues affecting energy issues in our nation.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will complete four courses (including at least one with a research paper) in the area of natural resources, energy or environmental law or a related area.
Outcomes
Private practice, in house counsel, government, regulatory bodies and non-government organizations in the specialty area.
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Three years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the law degree. To be competitive, applicants will generally have GPAs considerably above the minimum.
International applicants should visit
this website
to determine whether or not their GPAs meet program minima.
Minimum education
A law degree
Work samples
None
Documents
A CV
You will be asked to identify two referees. Ensure that the contact information you provide is accurate. At least one, and preferably both, of your references should be provided by individuals who have worked with you in a previous academic program and are well familiar with your past work and your current plans.
Transcripts from all post-secondary institutions that you have attended, including any that you may currently be attending. Information about transcripts is available
HERE
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (minimum of 25 on the reading and writing components).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section and a reading and writing band minimum of 7.0).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum score of 70 on writing and reading sections and 60 in all other sections).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in the Academic Writing and Composition course, a minimum grade of “A-” in the Research Writing and Form course, and a minimum grade of “B+” in all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Dates and Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Application portal (below) opens September 1.
Application deadline: December 1.
Deadline for submission of supporting documents and reference letters: December 15.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Law Graduate Programs
University of Calgary- Law Graduate Programs
MFH 2380, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.210.8718
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Law
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary