Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/network-security-cert

Network Security
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The field of cybersecurity is growing, along with a demand for IT professionals capable of identifying security threats, developing secure networks and communicating cybersecurity risks and solutions to business leaders.
The Graduate Certificate in Network Security provides working IT professionals with the theory, tools, practices, and communication skills needed to help you grow your career in cybersecurity. Professionals completing the certificate can expect to gain a strong conceptual foundation bolstered by hands-on training in network security and applied cryptography methods and practices. This includes a laboratory course in Ethical Hacking, focused on providing experience in identifying network vulnerabilities.
This program has a single yearly intake starting in the Fall term.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will take courses in applied cryptography, network security, and ethical hacking; students choose one course from topics including: governance and risk management, policies and standards, incidence management and forensics.
Outcomes
Technology sector, system administrator, computer science research, instructor, educator, business analysis, security, IT, loss prevention, employment, advancement, career change, law enforcement, consulting.
A course-based certificate in Network Security is usually considered a final degree
Course-based program
Four courses.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
4, 8, 10 or 12 months, depending on the schedule set per cohort. The maximum time allowed is three years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution in Computer Science. If the baccalaureate is not in Computer Science, the candidate must have successfully completed an undergraduate course in each of the following areas:
Computer programming with understanding of execution environments
Algorithms and data structures
Either operating systems or computer networks
Alternate routes to admission
Applicants not meeting formal academic requirements but who have significant life achievement may be considered for admission. The candidate must provide evidence to the Information Security Program Director demonstrating the potential to undertake this certificate program. Such candidates may be required to participate in an interview with the Program Director and complete additional courses.
Graduates who apply to a post-baccalaureate certificate program within five years of completing another UCalgary post-baccalaureate certificate will not be required to submit reference letters or transcripts.
Documents
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letters
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
Fall Admission
Application start:
September 1
Deadline for Canadian/Permanent Residents:
June 15
Deadline for International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Learn more about this program
Information Security Graduate Certificate Program
Graduate Science Centre
SA 229, 2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.7495
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.8600
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Data Privacy
Certificate
Software Security
Certificate
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary