Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/neuroscience-msc-thesis-based

Neuroscience
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Neuroscience graduate program seeks to advance research contributing to the understanding of the brain and mental health, promote independent thinking and prepare graduate leaders to excel in any field of human endeavor. The program is ideal for inquisitive students with high scholastic achievement​ driven to understand who and what we are, and who wish to better the mental and physical health of all members of our society. Students focus on both disease and fundamental understanding of the brain, learning in a faculty that fosters interaction between clinical and basic scientists. The research-intensive degree focuses on both disease and fundamental understanding of the brain, with first-year core courses providing a solid foundation in neurophysiology.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include cellular, molecular and developmental neuroscience, systems neuroscience and neuropathology and others.
Research Ethics:
Students are required to attend Research Integrity Day sessions in the first year of their program.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Seminars:
Students will participate in the Hotchkiss Brain Institute seminar program and a journal club.
Research Proposal:
Students must defend a written research proposal to their supervisory committee.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
(Optional) Interdisciplinary Specialization I:
A specialization in
computational neuroscience
is available. Additional information can also be found
here.
(Optional) Interdisciplinary Specialization II
: A specialization in
medical imaging
is also available. Additional information can also be found
here
.
Outcomes
Careers that demand a high degree of intellectual performance, positions of leadership, academia (teachers, administrators, researchers), medicine - clinician researchers, pharmaceutical industry, entrepreneurial endeavors, Fortune 500 companies, biomedical sales.
A master’s degree in neuroscience will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Michael A. Colicos
Accepting Inquiries
Neuroscience
Camila Aquino
Accepting Inquiries
Neuromodulation in Movement Disorders, Clinical Trials in Parkinson's Disease, Patient-Oriented Research
Jeff Biernaskie
Accepting Inquiries
Tamara Bodnar
Accepting Inquiries
Microbiome , Inflammation and neurodegeneration, Prenatal alcohol exposure/Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD), Germ-free models, Indigenous community partnerships (health focus)
Stephanie Borgland
Accepting Inquiries
Neural circuits underlying motivated behaviour
Janice Braun
Accepting Inquiries
Molecular Chaperones and Neurodegeneration
Signe Bray
Accepting Inquiries
Veronica Bruno
Accepting Inquiries
Parkinson's disease: Pain and related non motor symptoms., Palliative care and end of life in Movement Disorders, Women's health and Parkinsons' disease, Caregiving in neurodegenerative movement disorders
Brandy Callahan
Unavailable
Geriatric neuropsychology, Adult ADHD
Candice Cassia Poon
Seeking Students
Neuro-Oncology, Neuroimmunology, Neurosurgery, Bioinformatics, Cancer Biology, Translational Oncology, Glioblastoma, Brain Metastasis, Glymphatic System, Perivascular Space, Tumor Microenvironment, Artificial Intelligence, Neuroimaging, Cancer Immunology, Computational Biology, Tumor Invasion, Preclinical Models, Interdisciplinary Research
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
…
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on May 1
Canadians and permanent residents: March 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents:Jun. 1 application deadline
International students: Apr. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1
Canadians and permanent residents: Oct. 1 application deadline
International students: Aug. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Neuroscience
Graduate Science Education
HSC G345B, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 2T9
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, ABT2N 4N1
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Neuroscience
PhD
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Clinical Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Math and Statistics
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary