Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/nursing-cert

Nursing
Nursing Certificate (Advanced Nursing Practice I and II)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The graduate certificates in
Advanced Nursing Practice I and II
are designed to provide advanced nursing practice knowledge and practical experience for registered nurses who wish to acquire specialized skills.
The certificates will strengthen nursing professionals’ knowledge and skills that are specific to their area of practice, and will support them to integrate role dimensions that include advanced clinical skills, organizational leadership, research, education, professional development and consultation to impact patient, provider, and health system outcomes.
Each specialization within both certificates will be a
cohort-based, one-year, part-time online program.
The delivery model will allow students who live outside of Calgary to obtain graduate education at the Faculty of Nursing while continuing to work.
Completing this program
Courses:
One graduate certificate in Advanced Nursing Practice is part-time and takes one year to complete. This involves taking one course each semester over the four standard semesters (Fall, Winter, Spring, and Summer). All students will complete a specialized practice demonstration in the fourth and final course of each of the certificate programs.
Specializations
Leadership for Health System Transformation
Innovations in Teaching and Learning
Contemporary Topics in Aging
Addiction and Mental Health
Healthcare Innovation and Design
Oncology
Palliative and End of Life Care
Rural and Remote Nursing
Outcomes
The certificates will appeal to nursing professionals and other professionals from health-related disciplines who want to advance their careers in their current direct practice area, who want to transition into a new direct practice area, or who want to enter more senior education, leadership or management positions.
Students who successfully complete one specialization of the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Nursing Practice I and a second specialization of the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Nursing Practice II will be eligible to apply for admission into the Master of Nursing Laddered Certificate Pathway (course-based) degree and will receive advanced credit for the coursework completed.
Course-based program
Each certificate consists of 12 units (four courses).
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
Time commitment
12 months per certificate, part-time
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree in nursing, or an equivalent degree from a recognized institution. Applicants who hold a baccalaureate degree in another health profession may be considered for admission on a case-by-case basis.
Documents
Transcripts from ALL post-secondary
: This includes transcripts from the institutions where the degree was awarded, from any institution where any transfer credit was received towards a program of study, or from where any independent coursework was taken.
Please request that official transcripts be sent to the attention of:
Faculty of Nursing - Graduate Programs
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary AB T2N 1N4
Work Samples
None
Reference letter
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
Applications open Jan. 30.
June 30 application deadline.
International students:
June 30 application deadline.
To request a change in specialization:
One week prior to students starting the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Nursing Practice I or Graduate Certificate in Advanced Nursing Practice II.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Nursing Graduate Programs
Faculty of Nursing, Professional Faculties, Room 2260
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT 2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Nursing
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
PhD
DN
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary