Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/nursing-phd

Nursing
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Applications open June 1 for January 2024
Program overview
​This doctoral program develops nurse scientists who are expert clinical scholars equipped to provide leadership in nursing practice, research and education. The degree is designed to educate professionals for excellence in nursing scholarship through original research. Our thesis-based degree offers opportunities to become research-intensive, gain core disciplinary knowledge and develop expertise within a substantive field. Before applying, candidates are required to seek out members of our award-winning faculty who they believe would be a good “fit” with their research plans. The University of Calgary is committed to helping new doctoral students get funding support through awards, faculty research programs, teaching assistantships, and research scholarships.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include philosophy of science in nursing, contemporary issues, e-portfolio development, health policy and advocacy, quantitative and qualitative research and others.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Outcomes
Healthcare, community health, advanced practice nursing, pediatrics, gerontology, mental health, acute care, ICU, oncology, palliative care, maternal/child health, NICU, pulmonary care, clinical simulation, nursing research, nursing education, critical incident stress, health policy, spiritual care.
A PhD in nursing is usually considered a final degree, but may lead to post-doctoral study.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Five courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Karen Benzies
Accepting Inquiries
Parent-Child Relationships, Early Childhood Development, Family Integrated Care, Welcome to Parenthood
Merilee (Meredith)  Brockway
Accepting Inquiries
Infant Feeding Trial, Patient Oriented-Research
Colleen Cuthbert
Accepting Inquiries
Health Services Research, Cancer Survivorship, Mixed Methods
Añiela dela Cruz
Accepting Inquiries
HIV Cascade of Care; Vulnerable Populations; Population Health Promotion; Social Determinants of Health
Tam Truong Donnelly
Accepting Inquiries
Health services research;  Women’s health; Multicultural/Cross-cultural health; Population health, health promotion and disease prevention; Mental health;  Cardiovascular health; Cancer prevention; Infectious diseases; Mix-methods (qualitative and quantitative) research
Andrew Estefan
Accepting Inquiries
Mental Health/Psychiatric Nursing, Gender, Sexuality, Sexual Orientation, Narrative Inquiry
Kathryn King-Shier
Accepting Inquiries
cardiovascular health, ethno-culture, gender, access to care, secondary prevention
Catherine Laing
Accepting Inquiries
Pediatric and adolescent oncology; psychosocial oncology
Nicole Letourneau
Accepting Inquiries
Vulnerable children, Social support, Parent-infant/child relationships, Maternal mental health, Domestic abuse, Family environmental effects on child development, Genetics and epigenetics
Candace Lind
Accepting Inquiries
Adolescent/youth health promotion
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units).
Minimum education
Registered nurse holding CPR certification at the Basic Rescuer or Basic Cardiac Life Support or 'C' level. A masters degree with specific graduate-level coursework: One graduate-level course in quantitative methods One graduate-level course in qualitative methods One graduate-level course in statistics Exceptions may be considered.
Work samples
Samples of written scholarly work.
Documents
A C.V.
A notice of support from proposed supervisor indicating a willingness to provide supervision throughout the program
A study plan outlining the areas of proposed concentration, goals in undertaking doctoral work, initial intentions regarding course work, and a statement of the preliminary plans for thesis research
Reference letters
Three, one of which must be from the Master's degree supervisor.
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on January 1:
Canadian and permanent resident
Applications open June 1.
September 1 application deadline. Document deadline September 15.
International Students
Applications open June 1.
September 1 application deadline. Document deadline September 15.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Nursing Graduate Programs
Faculty of Nursing, Professional Faculties, Room 2260
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT 2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Nursing
Course-based Certificate
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
DN
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary