Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/nursing-mn-course

Nursing
Master of Nursing (MN)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
PLEASE NOTE
:
This program is available as part of a Laddered Certificate Pathway. Admission to the program requires completion of the
Advanced Nursing Practice I and II Graduate Certificates
.
If you are interested in applying for this program, please contact the
Faculty of Nursing
for more information.
Our faculty’s mission is to advance nursing practice and promote health through research and learning. Through innovations in teaching approaches and through our programs of nursing research, the Faculty of Nursing at the University of Calgary transforms students into our next generation of health-care leaders.
This degree prepares nurses for advanced practice in focused areas such as direct clinical practice, education, or health policy and leadership, and is a perfect fit for RNs who already have an expert knowledge base and complex decision-making skills. Course-based students have a total of six years to complete the program.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include quantitative and qualitative research, nursing leadership, and others.
Outcomes
Variety of opportunities for advancing your career. A master’s degree is also a pre-requisite for doctoral studies.
Course-based program
4 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
Time commitment
One year. Maximum completion time is two years.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
PLEASE NOTE: Admission to this program is part of a Laddered Certificate Pathway.
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Registered Nurse or Registered Psychiatric Nurse holding a baccalaureate degree, normally in nursing, along with:
Advanced Nursing Practice I and II Graduate Certificates
with a minimum GPA of 3.0
One undergraduate course in statistics with a grad of 'C' or better
Documents
Evidence of active nursing registration in Alberta through the College of Registered Nurses of Alberta (CRNA) or active nursing registration in their province or territory of employment. Registered Psychiatric Nurses are expected to provide proof of active registration with the College of Registered Psychiatric Nurses of Alberta (CRPNA) or equivalent.
Interviews
Have an interview(s) with a faculty member, if requested by the faculty.
Work samples
None
Reference letter
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents:
Applications open Jan. 30.
June 30 application deadline.
International students
June 30 application deadline.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Nursing Graduate Programs
Faculty of Nursing, Professional Faculties, Room 2260
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT 2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Nursing
Course-based Certificate
Thesis-based MN
PhD
DN
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary