Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/nursing-mn-thesis

Nursing
Master of Nursing (MN)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Our graduates are prepared for leadership and practice in varied roles and settings, in local and global contexts, and with diverse populations through integration of nursing education and research. Infused with curiosity and driven by passionate determination, we embrace opportunities for innovation that will transform health systems for the future.
Our thesis-based program offers a focused supervised research experience. This Master of Nursing degree will prepare registered nurses for advanced practice in focused areas that may include direct clinical practice, education, or health policy and leadership.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include quantitative and qualitative research, nursing leadership, and others.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Variety of opportunities for advancing your career.
A master’s degree is a pre-requisite for doctoral studies.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
5 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
Time commitment
Expected completion time is 3 years; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Karen Benzies
Accepting Inquiries
Parent-Child Relationships, Early Childhood Development, Family Integrated Care, Welcome to Parenthood
Merilee (Meredith)  Brockway
Seeking Students
Infant Feeding Trial, Patient Oriented-Research
Colleen Cuthbert
Accepting Inquiries
Health Services Research, Cancer Survivorship, Mixed Methods
Añiela dela Cruz
Accepting Inquiries
HIV Cascade of Care; Vulnerable Populations; Population Health Promotion; Social Determinants of Health
Tam Truong Donnelly
Accepting Inquiries
Health services research;  Women’s health; Multicultural/Cross-cultural health; Population health, health promotion and disease prevention; Mental health;  Cardiovascular health; Cancer prevention; Infectious diseases; Mix-methods (qualitative and quantitative) research
Andrew Estefan
Accepting Inquiries
Mental Health/Psychiatric Nursing, Gender, Sexuality, Sexual Orientation, Narrative Inquiry
Jennifer Jackson
Seeking Students
Kathryn King-Shier
Accepting Inquiries
cardiovascular health, ethno-culture, gender, access to care, secondary prevention
Catherine Laing
Accepting Inquiries
Pediatric and adolescent oncology; psychosocial oncology
Nicole Letourneau
Accepting Inquiries
Vulnerable children, Social support, Parent-infant/child relationships, Maternal mental health, Domestic abuse, Family environmental effects on child development, Genetics and epigenetics
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Registered Nurse or a Registered Psychiatric Nurse holding a baccalaureate degree, normally in nursing, along with:
One undergraduate course (3 units) in Statistics with a grade of 'C' or better.
Work samples
None
Documents
Research proposal
Evidence of active nursing registration in Alberta through the College of Registered Nurses of Alberta (CRNA) or active nursing registration in their province or territory of employment. Registered Psychiatric Nurses are expected to provide proof of active registration with the College of Registered Psychiatric Nurses of Alberta (CRPNA) or equivalent.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents:
Applications open Jan. 30.
June 30 application deadline.
Document Deadline July 15.
International students:
June 30 application deadline.
Document Deadline July 15.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Nursing Graduate Programs
Faculty of Nursing, Professional Faculties, Room 2260
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT 2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Nursing
Course-based Certificate
Course-based MN
PhD
DN
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary