Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/pathologists-assistant-mdpa

Pathologists' Assistant
Master of Pathologists' Assistant (MDPA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Pathologists’ Assistant program is a course-based professional master’s degree that can lead to direct employment within a pathology laboratory as a Pathologists’ Assistant. Our program is one of two NAACLS accredited programs offered in Canada; this allows our graduates to qualify for the ASCP and CCCPA examinations required to apply for jobs across North America. Through hands on experience in high paced medical laboratories students learn to perform tasks, such as the dissection of surgical specimens and autopsies, under the direct supervision of a Pathologist. Attention to detail, problem solving and collaborative skills are essential to successful completion of the course-based program.
Completing this program
Course topics
may include systems pathology, human anatomy, human pathology, human histology, surgical pathology practicum and more.
Sex & Gender Module:
Students are required to complete one of the CIHR sex and gender online training modules found at discoversexandgender.ca in the first year of their program.
Research Integrity Day:
Research Integrity Day is a Research Ethics session offered several times each year. All graduate students in the Cumming School of Medicine are required to attend Research Integrity Day in the first year of their program as part of their course requirements. See the Graduate Science Education
https://cumming.ucalgary.ca/gse/current-students/research-integrity-day
for details and to register for the Research Integrity Day session.
Outcomes
Graduates of this program go on to careers in healthcare, medical laboratories, laboratory management, pathology and forensic pathology.
A course-based master’s degree in pathologists assistant is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
18 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A BSc in Biological Sciences or equivalent.
Work samples
None
Documents
A current C.V.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: February 28 application deadline
International students: February 28 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Pathologists' Assistant - Graduate Studies
Graduate Science Education (Foothills Campus)
HSC G345A, 3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
Foothills Campus, University of Calgary
Calgary, AB T2N 4N1
Visit the Cumming School of Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Biomedical Technology
Course-based MBT
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary