Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/philosophy-ma-course

Philosophy
Master of Arts (MA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The course-based MA program is ideal for students seeking a broad background in philosophy, and is especially suited for those without an undergraduate degree in philosophy, or those who seek part-time study.
Students will become part of a vibrant intellectual community in one of Canada's preeminent philosophy programs. Activities coordinated by the philosophy department include graduate seminars, regular research group meetings and an active series of visiting speakers. All full-time students get office space in the department with access to computer facilities. The department's open layout, with offices around a central lounge area, invites the social and intellectual exchange that is fundamental to an education in philosophy.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Two courses in the history of philosophy, two courses in 20th century/contemporary philosophy and the Graduate Proseminar.
Remedial Courses:
If required, students will remedy background deficiencies taking senior undergraduate course work.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include philosophy of science, history of philosophy, metaphysics, ethics, philosophy of language, epistemology, logic and more.
Course Load:
Students must complete at least one course in each annual registration period.
Outcomes
Academia, law, public policy, research analysis, consulting, publishing.
A course-based master’s degree in philosophy is usually considered a final degree.
*Note: Students interested in research careers should apply to the thesis-based program and/or contact the GPD prior to application
Course-based program
Ten courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
2 years years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is not required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year undergraduate degree with honours or a major in philosophy. Applicants with a degree in a related academic field will be considered.
Work samples
A sample of written work, such as a recent essay, written in English.
The sample should be 10-15 pages including bibliography, prepared for anonymous review.
Documents
None
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 135* (with no sub-score below 115*).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in writing and oral communication courses/B+ in other courses.
Deadlines
For Admission September 1:
January 6
Canadians and permanent residents are strongly urged to apply for SSHRC scholarships in the Fall prior to application.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Philosophy
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Advisor
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Philosophy
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Greek and Roman Studies
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Law
Thesis-based LLM
Course-based LLM
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Religious Studies
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary