Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/physics-and-astronomy-phd

Physics and Astronomy
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Doctoral students in Physics and Astronomy have the opportunity to make original and significant contributions to science within a department recognized globally for leading research. The PhD program appeals to students planning a career in academia, government labs, leadership roles, and industry. The programs connects students with state-of-the-art experimental and computational facilities both here and at collaborating institutions, and with world-renowned researchers in one of six focus areas: Astronomy and Astrophysics, Complexity, Environmental and Isotope Physics, Radiation Oncology Physics, Quantum Information and Quantum, Atomic, and Molecular Optics, and Space Physics. These focus areas lie within program specializations that students apply to: Physics, Astrophysics, Space Physics or Radiation Oncology Physics (including Medical Imaging/Medical Physics).
The PhD under Radiation Oncology Physics (ROP) is a Commission on Accreditation of Medical Physics Education Program (CAMPEP) accredited program. Students interested in this specialization typically have a MSc from a CAMPEP accredited program or closely related degree to be admitted. The PhD specializing in ROP is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Medical Physics Education Programs (CAMPEP) and provides didactic background, research experience and clinical training for a career in Radiation Oncology Physics. The majority of our graduates have gone on to residencies in Clinical Radiation Oncology Physics in Canada and beyond.
The department's per capita funding level is the highest within UCalgary's Faculty of Science. Admission is competitive, favouring students who demonstrate academic excellence and leadership.
Completing this program
Astronomy & Astrophysics:
Research topics may include radio, optical, infrared and space astronomy, computational astrophysics, star formation, the interstellar medium, and general relativity.
Isotope and Environmental Physics:
Research topics may include nuclear decay processes, the effect of human activity on the environment, the development of analytical and instrumental techniques, isotope composition of trace gases and aerosols, source apportionment studies, and isotope fractionation.
Radiation Oncology Physics:
Research topics may include intensity modulated and image guided radiation therapy, prostate brachytherapy, and stereotactic radiosurgery.
Space Physics:
Research topics may include precipitation mechanisms, remote sensing magnetospheric dynamics, and the solar-terrestrial interaction.
Complexity:
Research topics may include complex networks, self-organized criticality, statistical and computational physics, and non-linear dynamics.
Quantum Information and Quantum, Atomic, and Molecular Optics:
Research topics may include the study of information, communication and computation using devices that are governed by quantum principle as well as the interaction between light and matter.
Candidacy:
Students will prepare a thesis proposal as well as take an oral exam on background knowledge of the research topic and the student's proposal.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Specializations
Astrophysics
Medical Physics
Physics
Radiation Oncology Physics
Space Physics
Computational Neuroscience (interdisciplinary)
Medical Imaging (interdisciplinary)
Outcomes
Researcher, technician, radiation oncology, medical or clinical physicist, professor, instructor, data science/mining, communications, journalism, entrepreneur, environmental, financial, strategic management and/or IT consultant, quantitative analyst, risk assessment, insurance, bioinformatics.
A PhD in physics and astronomy is usually considered a final degree; in some cases, students may pursue postdoctoral work.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Two courses minimum
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Paul Barclay
Seeking Students
Nanophotonics, quantum optics, nanoscience, nano-optomechanics
Shabir Barzanjeh
Seeking Students
Quantum Communication and Quantum Interface (optomechanics, electromechanics, circuitQED), Quantum Sensing and Imaging
Christopher Cully
Accepting Inquiries
Space Physics, Space-based, balloon-based and ground-based instrumentation, Van Allen Radiation Belts, Wave-particle interactions, Ion outflow, Kinetic plasma theory, Spacecraft-plasma interactions
Jörn Davidsen
Seeking Students
Complexity Science, Spreading & triggering processes, Fluid-induced seismicity, Computational neuroscience & the critical brain, Rock fracture & frictional sliding, Statistical seismology, Network neuroscience, Synchronization & chimera states, Sociophysics, Climate dynamics & climate networks
David Knudsen
Unavailable
Space Plasma Physics
Denis Leahy
Accepting Inquiries
High Energy Astrophysics
Nasser Moazzen-Ahmadi
Accepting Inquiries
Molecular Physics, Chemical Physics
Daniel Oblak
Accepting Inquiries
Quantum Information
Rene Plume
Accepting Inquiries
Astronomy
Barry Sanders
Accepting Inquiries
Quantum Information
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
An MSc degree (or equivalent) in physics, engineering physics, astronomy/astrophysics or a related scientific field.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
All foreign applicants must submit Graduate Record Examination (GRE) Physics subject score
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Physics and Astronomy
Science B 605
834 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403. 220.3618
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
403.220.8600
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Physics and Astronomy
Course-based MSc
Thesis-based MSc
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Chemistry
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Computer Science
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Electrical and Software Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Geography
Course-based MGIS
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Geoscience
Thesis-based MSc
Course-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary