Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/planning-mplan-course

Planning
Master of Planning (MPlan)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This two-year Canadian Institute of Planners-accredited graduate degree teaches students the legal and institutional processes of planning, and prepares students with a depth of applicable knowledge for identifying and leveraging opportunities to make our cities and communities more sustainable, vibrant, healthy, equitable, and economically secure. In this studio-based program, students engage with real-world problems and real clients.
We emphasize the importance of form-based planning, where design and graphic skills are an integral part of the planning process. We offer a series of studios and technical courses that prepare students for this challenging work.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Studio courses in each term and other topics including site planning, history and theory, analytic methods and others.
Additional Courses:
Include computer modelling, geographic information systems, urban design, regional planning, land use and other topics.
Outcomes
City planner, real estate development, school boards, non-profit organizations, urban designer, parks planner, environmental planner, GIS specialist, regional planner, housing specialist, community planner.
The course-based Master of Planning degree is accredited by the Professional Standards Board (PSB), and fulfills the accreditation requirements of the Canadian Institute of Planners (CIP) and the Alberta Professional Planners Institute (APPI). Students can also continue their academic studies by pursuing the Master of Environmental Design (MEDes) degree.
Course-based program
Fifteen core courses, including five planning studio courses and three elective courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of study (a minimum of 20 courses or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution
Documents
Applicants are required to submit a
digital application package
consisting of 1) a digital portfolio, 2) a resume/CV, and 3) a statement of interest. These documents should be submitted as a single .PDF document with a cover letter (include your full name) and a table of contents for clarity. The package should be uploaded to the Student Centre following submission of an online application. Additional descriptions, specifications, and details about the digital portfolio, resume, and statement of interest can be found on the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape website at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/future-students/admissions/mplan
.
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 7.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 135* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Architecture
Course-based MArch
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Landscape Architecture
Course-based MLA
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary