Link: https://www.ucalgary.ca/future-students/undergraduate/explore-programs/planning

Planning
Master of Planning (MPlan)
Learn how to apply for admission
Why choose Planning?
Our Master of Planning (MPlan) program is a distinctly different design- and studio-based program. This studio emphasis means that you'll be engaged with real-world problems and real clients, often helping to directly shape the built environment. Studio-based learning is applied learning, so you'll synthesize the skills and knowledge gained throughout the program to address complex problems at a variety of scales, and emphasizing a design approach. Our MPlan program is the only accredited planning program in Alberta, and is fully accredited by the Professional Standards Board, Canadian Institute of Planners, and the Alberta Professional Planners Institute. Graduation from an accredited planning program is the most direct path to becoming a Registered Professional Planner (RPP) and member of the Canadian Institute of Planners (MCIP). Undergraduate study is required - You cannot enter the MPlan program directly from high school. The most up-to-date admission requirements can be found at
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/
.
Requirements
Requirements for this program can be found at:
https://sapl.ucalgary.ca/
You can also see the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape's
Bachelor Design in City Innovation.
​Studying Planning at [SAPL] placed me in an engaging studio-based environment, working with real professionals on real-world planning projects. The opportunity to study-abroad in Melbourne was a highlight – exposing me to new approaches to design and using one of the world’s most livable cities as a classroom.
Ben B
MPlan'14
Use the Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator to calculate your expenses as a first-year student.
Undergraduate Student Cost Estimator
See the best of UCalgary
Check out our student experience page to find out more about what life is like on campus or consider visiting campus for a tour led by one of our current students.
Learn about the student experience
More ways to get in touch
Ready to find out what campus is really like? Book a tour, join us at an event, or sign up for more information.
Join us for a future student event
Check our calendar to find out when we'll be in your area, or register for one of our upcoming online events.
Check events
Sign up for more information
Sign up for more information about UCalgary, receive important details and reminders, and find out when UCalgary is visiting your area.
Get more information
See the campus
Guided by a current student, you'll explore our classrooms, residences, athletic facilities, and more.
Book a tour
Contact us and get help
Need assistance? Learn how to get ahold of us and find answers to your questions.
Contact and help
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply for admission
School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape
Professional Faculties Building, Room 2182
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4
403.220.6601
Visit the SAPL website