Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/political-science-ma-thesis

Political Science
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Department of Political Science at the University of Calgary is among the strongest in Canada. Our scholars are pivotal in shaping political discourse in Canada and around the world, through their research and publishing in major scholarly journals, through training graduate students to become leaders in academic, public and private sector careers, and through their active participation in public debates about politics in Canada and international affairs.
Our program covers the traditional fields of political science and offers unparalleled strengths in the areas of Canadian politics, elections and voting behaviour, international law, political violence, history of political thought, gender and politics, and indigenous politics.
Students are given the tools and guidance needed to work at a high level on theoretical and practical problems of crucial political importance, domestically and globally.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Two or three courses in a primary field: Canadian politics, comparative politics, international relations or political thought.
Research Methods:
Students demonstrate knowledge of research methods or complete a course on quantitative analysis in political science.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include history of political thought, political theory, Canadian political process, foreign policy and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Government policy analyst, researcher, consultant, non-governmental organizations, international organizations.
A master’s degree in political science will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Five courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Gavin Cameron
Accepting Inquiries
Rob Huebert
Accepting Inquiries
Jack Lucas
Accepting Inquiries
Roberta Rice
Accepting Inquiries
Comparative Politics, Latin American Politics, Indigenous Politics
Anthony Sayers
Accepting Inquiries
Political Parties, Elections and Representation, Federalism
Melanee Thomas
Accepting Inquiries
Gender and Politics, Canadian Politics, Political Behaviour, Energy Transition, Research Methods
Kim-Lee Tuxhorn
Accepting Inquiries
International Relations
Daniel Voth
Accepting Inquiries
Indigenous Politics, Canadian Politics, Politics of Decolonization
Lisa Young
Accepting Inquiries
Political Parties, Election Law and Political Finance, Women in Politics
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.4 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year BA in Political Science or a strong background in Political Science: at least 5.0 full-course equivalents in Political Science.
Supervision
A supervisor is required, and must agree to oversee the student's research before admission will be granted.
Additional supervisors to those listed above may be found on the
Political Science
Research page. Contact the
Political Science Graduate Program Office
for more information.
Documents
A statement of research interests
Email confirmation from a potential supervisor who is interested in supervising your work
Work samples
Sample of written work, preferably a paper submitted for a Political Science course.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Political Science
Social Sciences Building, Room 756
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Political Science
PhD
Economics
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Thesis-based MSS
Course-based MSS
PhD
Philosophy
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary