Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/precision-health-certificate

Precision Health
Certificate (Cert)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Cumming School of Medicine Precision Health Program was designed to meet the professional development needs of current and future healthcare practitioners across Canada and internationally. This unique program strengthens students’ knowledge and skills in Precision Health and supports role integration in areas such as advanced clinical skills, data science, entrepreneurship, organizational leadership, research, education, professional development, and consultation to impact patient, provider, and health system outcomes.
This new transdisciplinary program will bring together future health care leaders, entrepreneurs, and educators with the goal of improving patient care. The program was built for a broad audience of healthcare professionals, including medicine, veterinary medicine, nursing, pharmacy, psychology, optometry, dentistry, and other professionals who want to advance their careers and assume leadership positions.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students will choose from one of the four specializations (Precision Medicine,  Quality and Safety Leadership, Innovation and Entrepreneurship or Health Professions Education Leadership) and take courses in areas including but not limited to Foundations of Precision Health, Ethics and Law, Safety Management, Health Professional Teaching and Learning and Implementing Innovations in Precision Health.
Sex and Gender Training Module:
Students are required to take the module that is most relevant to their research or program.
Outcomes
Precision Medicine Specialization
: Completion of the certificate in Precision Medicine will enable graduates to engage directly with the use of high-level molecular tools, including genome sequencing and assessment, in a clinical context. They will be uniquely positioned to bring cutting edge tools to bear in an ethical and responsible manner.
Quality and Safety Leadership
: Graduates of the certificate in Quality and Safety Leadership will be able to conduct research, education, and direct practice in health quality and safety. This emerging area of focus will allow graduates to bring tools that improve patient outcomes, experience, and the cost-effectiveness of their clinical practice.
Health Professions Education Leadership
: Completion of the certificate in this specialization would position graduates to take on leadership roles in designing and delivering curriculum for health professionals, with a particular focus on precision health.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
: Potential outcomes include business analyst, product manager, program manager, enterprise services development manager, product technical specialist, business capability analyst, project manager, project coordinator, implementation analyst.
A course-based certificate in Precision Health is usually considered a final credential.
Course-based program
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
Time commitment
10-12 months
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations
. No funding is available for this course.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary’s (UCalgary) Foothills Campus from anywhere. Experience all that the Cumming School of Medicine has to offer for interested prospective graduate students. Explore this state of the art campus from wherever you are. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the Foothills Campus Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree from a recognized institution in a health-related discipline.
Work samples
Not required
Documents
Official transcripts
A C.V.
Vision statement (no more than one page in length, single space, maximum 500 words) outlining career goals and how the Precision Health program will help to achieve them.
Reference letters
Not required
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Duolingo English Test
and obtaining a minimum score of 145* (with no sub-score below 125*). (
temporary until Fall 2024 intake
)
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: May 31 application deadline
International students: May 31 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Cumming School of Medicine
Health Sciences Centre
HSC G345B
3330 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Visit the faculty website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Precision Health
Course-based Diploma
Course-based Master's degree
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Biomedical Technology
Course-based MBT
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Community Health Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Gastrointestinal Sciences
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Immunology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Pathologists' Assistant
Course-based MDPA
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary