Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/psychology-msc-thesis

Psychology
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Students seeking to sharpen their skills should consider the Psychology (MSc Thesis) program. It gives them the choice of learning scientific methods to collect data – as well as specialized training – in three areas. Faculty members in Industrial-Organizational Psychology are concerned with individual and group behaviour, as well as the relationships of organization-wide variables to individuals and groups in work settings. Social and Theoretical Psychology involves social and cultural relations, as well as foundational and philosophical questions in psychology. Brain and Cognitive Science looks at the mental processes and brain structures involved in movement, perception, learning, memory, and understanding language.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics may include research design and methodology, brain and cognitive sciences, industrial/organizational psychology and more.
Medical Imaging:
Students take a course sequence in medical imaging in additional to the core requirements of the psychology program.
Industrial Organization:
Students take courses in research methods and statistics, industrial/organizational psychology and more.
Research Proposal:
Students must formally present a thesis proposal within 14 months after admission to the program.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend a research thesis.
Specializations
Industrial/Organizational Psychology
Medical Imaging Interdisciplinary Specialization
Wearable Technology Interdisciplinary Specialization
Computational Neuroscience Interdisciplinary Specialization
Outcomes
Universities, research centers, the government, private businesses.
A master’s degree in psychology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Michael Antle
Seeking Students
Circadian Rhythms
Susan Boon
Unavailable
interpersonal relationships
Joshua Bourdage
Accepting Inquiries
Job Interviews and Hiring, Impression Management, Influence, and Leadership, Individual Differences and Personality
Brandy Callahan
Accepting Inquiries
Geriatric neuropsychology, Adult ADHD
Tavis Campbell
Seeking Students
Behavioral Medicine, Adherence, Health Behaviors, Chronic Disease, Motivation
Derek Chapman
Seeking Students
Personnel Recruiting and Selection, Technology use in Recruiting and Selection, Employee Turnover, Organizational Culture, Person-Organization Fit
Jackson Cone
Accepting Inquiries
Visual Neuroscience, Computational Neuroscience, Behavioural Neuroscience
Richard Dyck
Seeking Students
Behavioural Neuroscience
Deinera Exner-Cortens
Accepting Inquiries
Teen Dating Violence, Healthy Relationships Promotion, Suicide Prevention, School Mental Health, Program Evaluation, Implementation Science
Susan Graham
Unavailable
Child Development, Language and Cognition
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.4 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four-year undergraduate degree in Psychology or related discipline.(Students not having an undergraduate degree in Psychology must demonstrate adequate background in psychology. Those needing additional work may be required to take particular courses.)
An undergraduate course in statistics/experimental design.
Work samples
None
Documents
N/A
Reference letters
Two academic letters
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 105.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (minimum of 6.0 in each section)
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 75, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (minimum 70 in each section)
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 200.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: November 15 application deadline
International students: November 15 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: September 1 application deadline, except for the Industrial/Organizational Psychology specialization
International students: September 1 application deadline, except for the Industrial/Organizational Psychology specialization
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Psychology
Psychology Graduate Program
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Advisor
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Psychology
PhD
Linguistics
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Neuroscience
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary