Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/public-policy-mpp-course

Public Policy
Master of Public Policy (MPP)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The University of Calgary Master of Public Policy (MPP) is a one-year integrated program that hones skills through hands-on training. Graduates go on to policy careers in both the public and private sectors. The School of Public Policy’s mission is to offer a student-centered, transformative education that equips graduates with a comprehensive set of analytical and quantitative skills that enable them to formulate and implement meaningful public policy for a better world. As Canada’s leading policy school, we guarantee your education will be as dynamic and diverse as the world of public policy.
Employment:
With dedicated career support and a network of alumni and other supporters, well over 80% of MPP graduates are placed in policy-relevant positions within six months of graduation. Our alumni work in government, the private sector, and not-for-profit sector.
Internships:
The School of Public Policy has partnered with the Government of Alberta to offer an exclusive internship within the Alberta Public Service. Each spring, we place up to 10 interns in six-month paid positions. This opportunity gives students unique access to an experiential learning opportunity within the provincial government, helps build their public policy expertise and launches their careers.
Average GPA:
The MPP program attracts high caliber students; the average entrance GPA of the 2017-2018 cohort was 3.6.
225+
MPP alumni
mentor current students, sit on interactive professional development panels and help drive our two annual capstone events that bring a large number of employers and alumni to campus. This enables students to quickly establish ties to foster employment.
The MPP can be completed in combination with the following course-based degrees:
Juris Doctor (JD)
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Completing this program
Capstone Project:
Students complete a project supervised by a faculty member. Capstone events involving employers and alumni in October and March enable students to inform their capstone with the perspectives of external policy professionals.
Courses:
Topics include regulation and law, markets and public policy, public finances, decision analysis, health policy, energy and environment policy, foreign policy analysis, social policy, communicating policy and more.
MPP Speaker Series, Alumni Involvement and Networking Events:
The School hosts a Speaker Series for students featuring prominent policy figures from across industry sectors. A mentorship program with MPP alumni is also offered as are numerous opportunities to attend professional events in Calgary and beyond.
Outcomes
Learn more about graduate outcomes on the School of Public Policy
website
.
A course-based master’s degree in public policy is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
11 total courses: consisting of 9 core courses and 2 additional elective courses.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
One year full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
All MPP students in the program will be guided by faculty affiliated with the School.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
A personal statement outlining the applicant’s career goals and how the applied-for program would help achieve those goals.
A current resume / C.V.
Two official copies of transcripts from all post-secondary institutions attended
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 105 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Feb. 1 application deadline
International students: Feb. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
School of Public Policy
Downtown Campus
906 8 Avenue SW, 5th Floor
Calgary, ABT2P 1H9
403.210.3802
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the School of Public Policy website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Economics
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Law
Thesis-based LLM
Course-based LLM
Course-based graduate certificate in Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law
Management
Course-based MMgmt
Course-based MBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based Executive MBA
Course-based Global Energy MBA
Thesis-based DBA
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Social Work
Certificate
Course-based MSW
Thesis-based MSW
PhD
Highlights of the MPP program
Why choose the MPP?
MPP students are trained to step into leadership positions across business sectors. Recent graduates have worked for organizations such as the Calgary Chamber of Commerce, the Calgary Homeless Foundation, Devon Energy, Finance Canada, National Public Relations, RBC and United Way CGY & Area
Read More
Employment statistics for the MPP
MPP students enter the workforce ready to hit the ground running. 94% of MPP graduates are employed in a policy-related role or are undertaking further education within six months of graduation.
Read more
The School of Public Policy connects industry, students and alumni
More than 60 business, government, not-for-profit organizations and MPP alumni attended the 3rd annual MPP Capstone Symposium.
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary