Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/quantum-computing-diploma

Quantum Computing
Graduate Diploma (GDIP)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
As quantum computing technology moves from a theoretical state to one available for commercial use, the diploma program will provide critical expertise in the application and integration of quantum technologies with existing IT infrastructure in industrial settings.
The Graduate Diploma in Quantum Computing is intended to provide an introduction to the essentials of quantum computing hardware and software, applications, and use cases. Students will have the opportunity to be trained in quantum hardware and practical quantum computing while developing an understanding of how quantum computing is used in industry with a focus on the adoption of systems, structure, and economics for platforms, and impacts on organizations.
Completing this program
Completing the Graduate Diploma in Quantum Computing requires 8 courses consisting of:
a) 4 courses from:
Quantum Computing 601
Quantum Computing 603
Quantum Computing 605
Quantum Computing 607
b) followed by 4 courses from:
Quantum Computing 609
Quantum Computing 611
Quantum Computing 613
Quantum Computing 615
Laddered Pathway
Students may complete a laddered pathway from the Graduate Certificate to the Graduate Diploma.
Each of the credentials can be completed full-time or part-time.
Students can choose to apply directly to one of the credentials or complete the individual credentials.
Students who complete the Graduate Certificate in Quantum Computing may receive laddering credit for the 12 units of coursework completed in the certificate program if they are subsequently accepted into the Graduate Diploma in Quantum Computing program within 5 years of beginning the certificate.
Outcomes
Industries:
Pharmaceuticals
Cybersecurity
Marketing And Advertising
AI Training
Financial Services/Investing
Logistics/Supply Chain Management
Healthcare
National Security
Graduates of the Diploma in Quantum Computing will help to direct strategic development and deployment within organizations through their understanding of quantum software and hardware, applications, and the implementation and use cases for quantum computing. In the case of new graduates, they will be well-positioned to join teams preparing for transitions to quantum computing. Mid-career professionals will bring training gained through the diploma program to bear on their experience and expertise, greatly enhancing their ability to provide consulting, strategic planning, and project management contributions to organizations. The program supports in-service professionals as well as those who are transitioning between or back into technology sector positions as upskilling or reskilling talent.
Course-based program
Eight courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom Delivery
Time commitment
8 months or 4 months through laddered pathway. Maximum time 2 years
Supervisor
An Academic Coordinator is assigned to each cohort in the Graduate Certificate, Graduate Diploma.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum admission grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or equivalent calculated on the last 60 units completed.
Minimum education
A four-year Bachelor’s degree in science or engineering or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Successful completion of:
3-unit undergraduate course in linear algebra (MATH 211 or equivalent)
3-unit undergraduate course in computer programming (CPSC 231 or CPSC 217 or equivalent, or demonstrated equivalent professional experience in computer programming)
Documents
Prerequisite Learning PDF
Reference letter
None
Work samples
None
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
Canadian/Permanent Residents:
This program is not open for direct entry. Students interested in this program can proceed through the laddered process, starting with the certificate. Please contact the program with any questions about this.
International:
This program is not open for applications at this time. Please contact the program for options.
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Quantum Computing
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the program website
Faculty of Science
Science A 229
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the faculty website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Quantum Computing
Course-based Certificate
Course-based Masters
Data Science and Analytics
Course-Based Certificate
Course-Based Diploma
Course-Based MDSA
Information Security and Privacy
Course-Based
MISP
Computer Science
Thesis-Based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary