Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/radiation-oncology-physics-dipl

Radiation Oncology Physics
Diploma
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This is a two-year clinical residency in radiation oncology physics accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Medical Physics Education Program, or CAMPEP. The post-doctoral diploma is designed for physicists, educated to the PhD level in medical physics, who are intending to pursue a career as a clinical medical physicist. The diploma has three basic components: a practical requirement, a course requirement, and clinical responsibilities.
Students will acquire a broad background in medical physics, including, radiation physics, radiobiology, radiation safety, medical imaging and the modern practice of radiation oncology, through intensive coursework and hands-on experience.
Completing this program
Medical Physics Courses:
Clinical competency I and II, Clinical Projects I and II, Radiation Oncology Physics Tutorials and Treatment Planning.
Outcomes
Medical physicist, radiation oncology physicist, clinical physicist, university instructor, industry physicist.
With a course based diploma in radiation oncology physics, students will be prepared to begin a residency in medical physics.
Course-based program
Six courses with a minimum grade of "B"; practicum completion
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time
Supervisor
Students are supervised by the Director of Medical Physics or designate, Tom Baker Cancer Centre
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education and AHS appointment
A University of Calgary Honours background in Physics, Engineering Physics, Astronomy/Astrophysics, or equivalent.
Applicants must also possess a PhD from a CAMPEP accredited graduate program or equivalent and an appointment as an Associate Medical Physicist by the Alberta Health Services.
Work samples
None
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
For some applicants, a satisfactory score on the Advanced Physics Graduate Record Examination.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jan. 15 application deadline
International students: Jan. 15 application deadline
For admission on January 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Jul. 1 application deadline
International students: Jul. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Physics and Astronomy
Science B 605
834 Campus Place NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403. 220.3618
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Science
Biological Sciences, Room 540
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.8600
Visit the Faculty of Science website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
Radiation Oncology Physics
Certificate
Biomedical Engineering
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Highlights of the Radiation Oncology Physics program
Gain experience in a clinical environment
Students work as project assistants at the Tom Baker Cancer Centre, finding real-world solutions to clinical problems in radiotherapy
Permanent Breast Seed Implant (PBSI)
Students will work in one of the only centres in the world performing this innovative treatment technique for breast cancer
Using state of the art technology
Students are fully trained to operate major radiation oncology equipment and become involved in procedure development and maintenance
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary