Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/religious-studies-phd

Religious Studies
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Religious studies seeks to develop understanding and empathy for diverse religious traditions and the people who practise them. Evaluators, here, will guide you through the study of religion from a multidisciplinary perspective, using methods drawn from various disciplines. The most common approaches are anthropological, sociological, historical, philological, and philosophical. In many cases, more than one method is used to illuminate a religion or a religious issue. Other approaches may include aesthetics and economics. Thus, the field is identified in terms of its subject matter, religion, and not the disciplinary approach used by scholars. Within the field, understanding is seen to precede criticism, with critical discussions of religious beliefs and traditions developing once understanding has been achieved.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include Western religions, Eastern religions, the nature of religion and advanced critical discourses in the study of religion.
Language:
Students demonstrate reading knowledge of at least two languages other than English prior to the candidacy examination.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Colloquium Course:
Students participate in a PhD departmental colloquium.
Candidacy:
Students will complete both oral and written candidacy exams.
Specializations
Western Religions
Eastern Religions
Nature of Religion
Outcomes
Former students have become academics, teachers, social workers, hospital chaplains, journalist and human relations professionals some have even entered the diplomatic service.
A PhD in religious studies is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Five courses minimum
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Lindsay Driediger-Murphy
Unavailable
Roman religion, Early Christianity and its interactions with non-Christian religions, Ancient divination, Greek and Roman historiography
Irving Hexham
Accepting Inquiries
Religion and Society
Clara A.B. Joseph
Accepting Inquiries
Creative Writing (Poetry, Non-Fiction Prose, Fiction); the Global Early Modern Period, Postcolonial Studies; South Asian Studies; Literary and Cultural Theory; Church History; Christianity
Joy Palacios
Seeking Students
Religious practice, culture, and literature of the French Counter-Reformation; Religious performance in the Christian tradion
Tinu Ruparell
Accepting Inquiries
Cross-cultural Hermeneutics; Religious Pluralism, Science and Religion, Cross-cultural Philosophy, Philosophy of Religion
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A degree comparable to the University of Calgary Religious Studies Master of Arts.
Work samples
A sample of written work (e.g. a recent research essay).
Documents
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Online Application Opens
- October 1.
January 15:  Application Deadline
January 25:  Supporting Documents and Reference Deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Classics and Religion
Social Sciences Building, Room 558
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
Religious Studies
Thesis-based MA
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based PhD
Art
Thesis-based MFA
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Music
Thesis-based MMus
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Philosophy
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary