Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/school-and-applied-psychology-msc-thesis

School and Applied Child Psychology
Master of Science (MSc)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The mission of this thesis-based degree is to prepare school psychologists to be contributors and effective collaborators in enhancing learning and mental health outcomes for all individuals, in a wide variety of settings.
To achieve these goals, our program cultivates students who are theoretically- and scientifically-informed critical thinkers who demonstrate excellence as providers of high-quality, evidence-based prevention, assessment, intervention and research services. Our graduates leave well-armed to serve as leaders in the effective application of educational and psychological principles to the learning environment at both the individual and systems levels.
Completing this program
Content Courses:
Topics include research design in statistics, ethics in professional psychology, disorders of learning and behaviour and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Practicum Courses:
Two practicum courses in a supervised setting.
Outcomes
Research, not-for-profit organizations, community agencies, post-secondary institutions, hospitals, counsellors, private practice settings, intercultural communication, culture studies, curricular consultant, public and private education systems,community and non-governmental agencies.
Thesis-based program
Completion of content courses, practicum and thesis
Courses
14 courses including practicum courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full-time; four years maximum; one year residency requirement
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Emma Climie
Accepting Inquiries
Strengths in ADHD
Adam McCrimmon
Seeking Students
Autism Spectrum Disorder
Meadow Schroeder
Seeking Students
Post-secondary student learning, Psychological assessment and diagnosis,  School supports for students with disabilities
Gabrielle Wilcox
Accepting Inquiries
School Neuropsychology, School-Based Mental Health, Transition, Clinical Reasoning
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Honours degree in Psychology (or equivalent) is preferred; applicants with a degree in Psychology, previous experience in the Psychological field. Normally, a minimum of 18 units (3.0 full-course equivalents) in Educational Psychology or Psychology. This must include: One undergraduate course in statistics, one senior undergraduate Psychology, or Educational Psychology course in each of cognitive-affective bases of behaviour. All prerequisite coursework must be completed with a grade of “B-” or above.
Documents
A curriculum vitae and statement of research and professional interests including the specification of a prospective research supervisor from among current faculty
A short statement of intent (approximately 500 words) of your research and professional interest in school psychology (e.g., expected contribution to the field; understanding of school psychology) indicating your reasons for wanting to pursue graduate work in this degree.
Note: A completed
Pre-Admissions Checklist
is required as part of the admissions process.
Police check
All successful applicants to the Werklund School of Education School and Applied Child Psychology program are required to provide a current Police Information Check which includes a Criminal Record Check and a Vulnerable Sector Search.
Work samples
None
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Deadlines
For admission on August 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Psychology graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
Education Tower, Room 1202A
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5639
Visit the Werklund School of Education website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
School and Applied Child Psychology
Course-based MEd
PhD
Counselling Psychology
Course-based MC
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary