Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/school-and-applied-psychology-phd

School and Applied Child Psychology
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This thesis-based degree prepares students to work as school psychologists or to develop specialized knowledge of school and applied child psychology for use in learning or community settings.
Course content for the PhD program follows the accreditation guidelines created by the Canadian Psychological Association’s standards for training.
Our mission is to turn out psychologists who will use their solid scientific foundations of psychology and education to enhance outcomes for learners of all ages in a wide range of applied settings. Graduates have gone on to find rewarding careers in schools and community agencies and in academic and research positions in institutions of higher education.
Completing this program
Content Courses:
Topics include creating a working alliance, clinical supervision in applied psychology, evidence-based consultation and more.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal and both oral and written candidacy exams.
Dissertation:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research dissertation.
Practicum Courses:
Courses include an Advanced Doctoral Practicum in Clinical Assessment and Supervision and a School Based Practicum.
Internship:
Students complete a one year full-time or two year half-time supervised internship in a school, clinic or human service agency.
Outcomes
University professors, research organizations, not-for-profit, non-governmental and community agencies, post-secondary institutions, hospitals, counsellors, private practice, intercultural communication, culture studies, curricular consultant, public/private education systems, policy and governance.
A PhD in school and applied child psychology is usually considered a final degree.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
11 courses including practicum courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum; two year residency requirement
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but is not required prior to the start of the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Emma Climie
Accepting Inquiries
Strengths in ADHD
Adam McCrimmon
Seeking Students
Autism Spectrum Disorder
Meadow Schroeder
Seeking Students
Post-secondary student learning, Psychological assessment and diagnosis,  School supports for students with disabilities
Gabrielle Wilcox
Accepting Inquiries
School Neuropsychology, School-Based Mental Health, Transition, Clinical Reasoning
Items per page
10
All
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the last two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A thesis-based Master's degree in School and Applied Child Psychology or equivalent.
Prerequisite courses to comply with accreditation standards:
Two senior undergraduate courses or one graduate course (3 units each) with a minimum grade of "B-" in biological bases of behaviour, cognitive-affective bases of behaviour, social bases of behaviour, and individual behaviour.
One senior undergraduate or one graduate course (3 units each) with a minimum grade of in the historical and scientific foundations of general psychology.
All prerequisite coursework must be completed with a grade of “B-” or above.
Police information check
Students who accept an offer of admission to a Graduate Program in Education that includes a practicum or internship will be required to provide a current Police Information Check (PIC) which includes a Criminal Record Check and a Vulnerable Sector Search. Students who are not residents of Calgary must arrange for a PIC through the nearest local police service or RCMP detachment in the area where they reside.
Please go to the
Werklund School of Education website
for more information.
Documents
A typed curriculum vitae
A concise rationale (500 words or less) for the application including statements about your research and professional interests in school psychology, your previous research experience and the research you would like to pursue in this degree, and specification of a prospective research supervisor from among current faculty.
Note: A completed
Pre-Admissions Checklist
is required as part of the admissions process.
Work samples
None
Reference letters
Three
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in each section).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in each course.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: Dec. 1 application deadline
International students: Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Educational Psychology graduate program
Education Tower, Room 114
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5675
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Werklund School of Education
Education Tower, Room 1202A
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5639
Visit the Werklund School of Education website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
School and Applied Child Psychology
Course-based MEd
Thesis-based MSc
Counselling Psychology
Course-based MC
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary