Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/social-work-msw-thesis

Social Work
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Social Work (MSW) is a nationally-accredited program that prepares students for advanced professional practice in social work. The thesis-based route is designed for students who intend to pursue doctoral studies and/or anticipate a career requiring advanced program evaluation and research skills.
Students are required to attend the residency attached to their program, which may be in Calgary or Edmonton.
Students holding an accredited Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree are admitted directly into a 36-month thesis-based MSW program. Students admitted with a non-social work degree complete 9 foundation courses (in 12 months) followed by the 36-month program (48 months total).
Completing this program
Courses:
Students must follow the prescribed curriculum plan for their specialization and complete all 10 courses (30 units) if they entered the program with a BSW or 19 courses (57 units) if they entered the program with a non-social work degree.  The specialization year consists of 4 courses in Advanced Social Work Practice (12 units), 4 specialization courses (12 units), and 2 thesis research courses (6 units).
Thesis:
Upon completion of required courses, students conduct original research and prepare a thesis which is evaluated on the written content and is orally defended before an examination committee.
Research Proposal:
Students should complete all coursework prior to having their proposal approved by their supervisor.
Optional Practicum:
Students may elect to complete
Social Work 660
Advanced Practicum, but it is not a mandatory component of the thesis-based degree.  Students with a non-BSW degree may need additional Foundational Practicum hours to meet accreditation requirements.
Specializations
Clinical Social Work Practice (CSWP)
International and Community Development (ICD)
Leadership in the Human Services (LHS)
For more information about these specializations please see the
Academic Calendar.
Outcomes
Hospitals/community health centers, mental health clinics, schools, non-profit/advocacy groups, government, social service/child welfare/family service agencies, correctional facilities, social housing, family courts, employee assistance programs, private counselling, school boards, consulting.
A thesis-based master’s degree in social work is a preferred pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to complete all required courses, prepare and successfully defend a thesis in an open oral examination.
Courses
Students with a BSW complete 10 courses (30 units).  Students with a non-social work bachelor's degree must complete 9 Foundation courses (27 units) prior to their 10 Specialization courses (30 units).  Advanced Practicum (
SOWK 660
- 6 units) is optional.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
The MSW thesis-based program in all three specializations will be offered by distance (online) learning with in-person residencies in Calgary or Edmonton. Online courses consist of a mix of real time classes at set times and learning that can be done on your own schedule. Students not attending residencies may be required to withdraw from the course or the program.
Please consult the Social Work
website
for specific program delivery information.
Time commitment
Three or four years (maximum) of full-time study, dependent on entry route, specialization and program location.
Supervisor
For incoming MSW thesis students, the PhD/MSW Thesis Coordinator will act as the interim supervisor. Before the end of April of the first year, each student must designate a faculty member as permanent supervisor. Students will work with their supervisors to determine if a co-supervisor and/or supervisory thesis committee is preferred. This decision should be made prior to start of
SOWK 670
and must be approved by the Graduate Program Director.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.  For more information, visit our
website
.
Heather M Boynton
Unavailable
Spirituality , Holistic Health and Wellbeing, Interprofessional Education and Collaboration, Mental Health
Patrina Duhaney
Accepting Inquiries
Ethno-cultural, and racialized groups, Intimate partner violence, Criminal justice system/policing, Social work education/higher education, Social justice
Yahya El-Lahib
Accepting Inquiries
Social work; Critical Disability Studies; Immigration, refugee and displacement studies; Social work & Bedouin Arabs; The scholarship of teaching and
Rick Enns
Accepting Inquiries
Canadian Federal Indian Education Policy, Immigration and Resettlement Policy, Critical Social Work Practice in Mental Health
Linda Kreitzer
Unavailable
International Social Work, Refugees and immigrants, African social work issues, compassion fatigue, community practice International indigenous issues
Yeonjung Lee
Accepting Inquiries
Outcomes of Caregiving for Older Adults, Aging-in-place and Long-term Care in Later Life, Aging in Poverty and Wealth Inequality in Later Life, Perceived Discrimination in Older Adults, Psychosocial Risk Factors for Dementia, Cross-national/Cultural Comparative Study, Population-based Secondary Data Analyses
Anne Marie Mclaughlin
Accepting Inquiries
Translating social work values into practice
Hieu Ngo
Accepting Inquiries
Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Youth crime prevention, Social entrepreneurship
William Pelech
Accepting Inquiries
Group Work
Melanie Rock
Unavailable
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree from an accredited/recognized* institution or a four-year bachelor’s degree in another discipline.  The degree must be conferred prior to the May program start.
*The Faculty of Social Work recognizes BSW degrees accredited by the Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE), the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE), and international credentials deemed equivalent to a Canadian BSW degree by the Canadian Association of Social Workers (CASW).
Work samples
None
Work experience
Applicants must have the equivalent of two years of full-time paid work or a minimum of 3,000 hours of paid and/or volunteer work in the human services field.
Documents
A program proposal outlining the applicant's social work perspectives and educational goals.
A preliminary thesis proposal describing the research problem you hope to investigate and the research methodology or methodologies you are considering.
A resume
Reference letters
Two; one professional and one academic
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97
(with no section less than 20)
.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.
0 (Academic version with no section less than 6.0)
.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in writing and speaking; 60 in reading and listening).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in academic writing and oral communication courses and B+ in other courses.
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: November 1 application deadline
International students: November 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Faculty of Social Work
MacKimmie Tower (MT) 301
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5942
Visit the
Faculty of Social Work website
Email:
fsw.studentservices@ucalgary.ca
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
Social Work
Course-based Certificate
Course-based MSW
PhD
Educational Research
Course-based MEd (Interdisciplinary)
Course-based MEd (Specialist)
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based EdD
PhD
Law
Certificate (Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law)
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
Nursing
Certificate
Diploma
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Highlights of the Social Work program
Creating Meaningful Experiences for Neurodivergent People
Dr. David Nicholas’ Vocational Abilities Innovation Lab is internationally acclaimed for its innovative approach in supporting autistic and other neurodivergent youth and adults.
Read More
Making neighbourhoods more liveable for older adults
As our population ages, it’s becoming increasingly important to ensure that Canadian neighbourhoods are liveable for everyone, which is the focus of Dr. Yeonjung Lee’s innovative research.
Read more
Leading Field Education Innovation
Finding meaningful practicum opportunities is a growing crisis in social work. Dr. Julie Drolet leads a national/international group that is finding surprising solutions.
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary