Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/sociology-ma-thesis

Sociology
Master of Arts (MA)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Master of Arts students will gain a world-class education that lays the foundation for further study at a doctoral level, or for professional employment. Recent research topics include refugee resettlement, service provision in safe consumption sites and homeless shelters, indigenous women's experience of incarceration programs, theories of environmental risk, improving hospital experience of aboriginal patients, the presentation of self online, wellbeing in professional work, and inclusion practices of Black and Caribbean youth. The 20-month program provides foundational training in sociological theory, methods and statistics, as well as substantive courses of interest. Students benefit from a professor/student ratio that guarantees access to support and feedback.
Completing this program
Core Courses:
Students take courses in social statistics, research methods, and theory.
Master's Seminar:
Students complete training seminar in professional sociology and preparation of a thesis prospectus.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include health and illness, ethnicity and racialization, gender, urban sociology, indigenous issues, deviance and social control, and more.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Outcomes
Health sector, education, government, non-profit, researcher, analyst, program evaluation, clinician.
A master’s degree in sociology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Six courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
20 months full-time; four years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required, but it is not necessary to find a supervisor before applying to the program.  MA supervisors are normally appointed after the first semester.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Michael Adorjan
Accepting Inquiries
youth and cyber risk, fear of crime, perceptions of police, social construction of youth crime, social construction of social problems
Pallavi Banerjee
Accepting Inquiries
Alex Bierman
Unavailable
Sociology of mental health; aging; quantitative research methods; social psychology; sociology of religion
Dean Curran
Accepting Inquiries
Risk; Theory; Inequality; Environment; Finance; Digital
Ariel Ducey
Accepting Inquiries
Emotions and affect; health care work and caring labor; science, technology and innovation in medicine; political economy of health care
Erin Gibbs Van Brunschot
Accepting Inquiries
Abdie Kazemipur
Accepting Inquiries
immigration, ethnic relations, religion, secularization, social capital, Muslim minorities in the West
Scott McLean
Accepting Inquiries
Historical sociology; sociology of education; popular culture
Fiona Nelson
Accepting Inquiries
Gender and Sexuality, Childhood and Youth, Mothering and Motherhood, Media/Pop Culture
Matt Patterson
Accepting Inquiries
Urban Sociology, Sociology of Culture, Sociological Theory
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Students must hold a four-year degree from a recognized/accredited institution. If degree was received from a university outside of Canada, refer to the
country-specific degree requirements.
Demonstrated competence, normally through course work, in classical and contemporary sociological theory, social research methods, and social statistics.
Work samples
A sample of written work.
Documents
A written statement of intent.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
Dec. 15 application deadline
International students:
Dec. 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Sociology
Social Sciences Building, Room 956A
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB, T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Course-based MA
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Management
Course-based MMgmt
Course-based MBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based Executive MBA
Course-based Global Energy MBA
Thesis-based DBA
PhD
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Course-based MSS
Thesis-based MSS
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Communication, Media and Film
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary