Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/sociology-ma-course

Sociology
Master of Arts (MA)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Master of Arts students will gain a world-class education that lays the foundation for further study at the doctoral level or professional employment. The 12-month program provides training in sociological theory, research methods, statistics, as well as substantive courses of interest. Students benefit from a professor/student ratio that guarantees access to support and feedback.
Students in the course-based program will complete course requirements in the Fall and Winter terms, and a major research paper in a 6-unit capstone course in the spring and summer terms. Themes and options for the major research paper will be established by the capstone course instructor(s), in consultation with students during their first two terms of study.
Completing this program
Core courses:
Students take courses in social statistics, research methods, theory and training in professional sociology.
Additional courses:
topics may include health and illness, ethnicity and racialization, gender, urban sociology, indigenous issues, deviance and social control, and more.
Major research paper
, completed over spring and summer terms.
Outcomes
Health sector, education, government, non-profit, researcher, analyst, program evaluation, clinician.
A course-based master’s degree in sociology will give you the pre-requisite for a PhD.
Course-based program
6 courses plus a professional seminar and major research paper course.
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
12 months
Supervisor
No supervisor is required.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.3 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Students must hold a four-year degree from a recognized/accredited institution. If degree was received from a university outside of Canada, refer to the
country-specific degree requirements.
Demonstrated competence in sociological theory, social methodology, and social statistics, in addition to a substantive interest.
Work samples
A sample of written work.
Documents
A written statement of intent.
Reference letters
Two.
Test scores
None.
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: December 15 application deadline
International students: December 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Department of Sociology
Social Sciences Building, Room 956A
618 Campus Place NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.6501
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Arts
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Visit the Faculty of Arts website
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Anthropology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Communication, Media and Film Studies
Thesis-based MA
PhD
History
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Management
DBA
Executive MBA
Global Energy MBA
MBA (course based)
Master of Management (course based)
PhD
Military, Security and Strategic Studies
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Political Science
Thesis-based MA
Course-based MA
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary