Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/social-work-graduate-certificates

Social Work
Graduate Certificates
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Graduate Certificates in Social Work serve as stand-alone credentials for practicing social workers with a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) or a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree, who seek formal professional development opportunities in their field.
These certificates also provide a flexible option to “ladder” to the MSW program.  Students who complete the graduate certificate in Advanced Social Work Practice
and
one of the certificates in a specialization area are eligible to apply to the course-based MSW program. If accepted, students will receive credit for the 24 units of coursework completed in the two certificates.
Students must apply to the MSW (course-based) degree within five years from the beginning of their first graduate certificate in Social Work.
Certificates offered
Advanced Social Work Practice (ASWP)
Clinical Social Work Practice (CSWP)
Specializations:
Adult Mental Health and Addictions
Individuals, Families and Group
Infant, Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Trauma-Informed Practice
Community-Informed Practice for Health and Wellbeing
International and Community Development (ICD)
Specializations:
International Social Development
Community Development
Leadership in the Human Services (LHS)
Specialization:
The Practical and Transformational Leader
Indigenous Ways of Knowing in Leadership
Graduate Certificate and Diploma in Mental Health and Addictions
(APPLICATIONS FOR THIS CERTIFICATE ARE NOT CURRENTLY BEING ACCEPTED)
​​​​​​​
Each certificate in the Specialization area addresses a particular topic (e.g., Trauma-Informed Practice, International Social Development, The Practical and Transformational Leader, etc.). Not all specialization topics are offered every year. Consult the Faculty of Social Work website for topics and residency locations.
Completing this program
Courses:
Each certificate consists of 12 units (four courses). Students must follow the prescribed sequence of courses for the Advanced Social Work Practice certificate or for their chosen Specialization topic.
Outcomes
Social workers practice in a wide range of settings supporting individuals, families, communities and organizations, including: hospitals/community health centers, mental health clinics, schools, non-profit/advocacy groups, government, social service/child welfare/family service agencies, correctional facilities, social housing, family courts, employee assistance programs, private counselling, and school boards.
Students who complete the graduate certificate in Advanced Social Work Practice and a certificate in one of the Specializations are eligible to apply to the Master of Social Work (course-based) program.
Course-based program
Four courses (3 units each).
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Blended delivery
Class delivery is through a combination of online learning and in-person classes.
Time commitment
Eight-months, part-time program with mandatory in-person residencies
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the BSW degree.
Minimum education
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree from an accredited/recognized* institution. The degree must be conferred prior to the start of the Graduate Certificate.
*The Faculty of Social Work recognizes BSW degrees accredited by the Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE), the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE), and international credentials deemed equivalent to a Canadian BSW degree by the Canadian Association of Social Workers (CASW).
Work samples
None.
Work experience
The equivalent of two years of full-time paid work or a minimum of 3,000 hours of paid and/or volunteer work in the human services field.
Documents
Resume
Reference letters
None.
Test scores
None.
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in writing and speaking; 60 in reading and listening).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in academic writing and oral communication courses and B+ in other courses.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: April 15 application deadline
International students: April 15 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Faculty of Social Work
MacKimmie Tower (MT) 301
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5942
Visit the
Faculty of Social Work website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Social Work
Course-based MSW
Thesis-based MSW
PhD
Educational Research
Course-based MEd (Interdisciplinary)
Course-based MEd (Specialist)
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based EdD
PhD
Law
Certificate (Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law)
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
Nursing
Certificate
Diploma
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Highlights of the Social Work program
Creating Meaningful Experiences for Neurodivergent People
Dr. David Nicholas’ Vocational Abilities Innovation Lab is internationally acclaimed for its innovative approach in supporting autistic and other neurodivergent youth and adults.
Read More
Making neighbourhoods more liveable for older adults
As our population ages, it’s becoming increasingly important to ensure that Canadian neighbourhoods are liveable for everyone, which is the focus of Dr. Yeonjung Lee’s innovative research.
Read more
Leading Field Education Innovation
Finding meaningful practicum opportunities is a growing crisis in social work. Dr. Julie Drolet leads a national/international group that is finding surprising solutions.
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary