Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/social-work-phd

Social Work
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Social Work Doctoral program graduates highly qualified social work researchers, educators and leaders.
Completing this program
Courses:
Required core courses (15 units) include Theory, History and Philosophy: Values, Ethics and Professional Beliefs; Research Foundations: Epistemology and Professional Knowledge-Building; Research Methods I: Quantitative; Research Methods II: Qualitative and Integrative Research Colloquia. Students must also complete 4 elective courses (12 units) relevant to their area of research.
Research Proposal:
Students must have their dissertation proposal approved by their supervisory committee prior to applying for ethics certification and Field of Study Exam.
Portfolio:
Students must have their portfolio approved by their supervisory committee at least 3 months before the Field of Study Exam.
Field of Study Exam:
This includes a written and oral component, both of which must be completed to the satisfaction of the examining committee.
Dissertation:
Students conduct original research and prepare a written dissertation which is evaluated and is orally defended before an examination committee.
Outcomes
Post-secondary academia, government, research, hospitals/community health centers, mental health clinics, schools, non-profit/advocacy groups, social service/child welfare/family service agencies, employee assistance programs, private counselling, consulting.
A PhD in social work is usually considered a final degree.
Completing the PhD does not qualify students to register with the Alberta College of Social Workers (CSW) unless they hold an accredited BSW or MSW.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a dissertation and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Minimum of nine courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Four years full-time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available. For more information visit our
website
.
Heather M Boynton
Unavailable
Spirituality , Holistic Health and Wellbeing, Interprofessional Education and Collaboration, Mental Health
Patrina Duhaney
Accepting Inquiries
Ethno-cultural, and racialized groups, Intimate partner violence, Criminal justice system/policing, Social work education/higher education, Social justice
Yahya El-Lahib
Accepting Inquiries
Social work; Critical Disability Studies; Immigration, refugee and displacement studies; Social work & Bedouin Arabs; The scholarship of teaching and
Rick Enns
Accepting Inquiries
Canadian Federal Indian Education Policy, Immigration and Resettlement Policy, Critical Social Work Practice in Mental Health
Deinera Exner-Cortens
Unavailable
Teen Dating Violence, Healthy Relationships Promotion, Suicide Prevention, School Mental Health, Program Evaluation, Implementation Science
Linda Kreitzer
Unavailable
International Social Work, Refugees and immigrants, African social work issues, compassion fatigue, community practice International indigenous issues
Yeonjung Lee
Accepting Inquiries
Outcomes of Caregiving for Older Adults, Aging-in-place and Long-term Care in Later Life, Aging in Poverty and Wealth Inequality in Later Life, Perceived Discrimination in Older Adults, Psychosocial Risk Factors for Dementia, Cross-national/Cultural Comparative Study, Population-based Secondary Data Analyses
Anne Marie Mclaughlin
Accepting Inquiries
Translating social work values into practice
Hieu Ngo
Accepting Inquiries
Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Youth crime prevention, Social entrepreneurship
Patricia Samson
Accepting Inquiries
Social Work Education, Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, Health/Mental Health
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.5 GPA on a 4.0 point system, calculated on the Master of Social Work or equivalent Master’s degree.
Minimum education
A Master of Social Work or equivalent Master’s degree from a recognized institution.
Work samples
A sample of written work such as a published or unpublished scholarly paper, or a professional report.
Professional experience
A minimum of two years full-time post-master's social services practice experience.
Documents
A program proposal outlining the applicant’s reasons for pursuing doctoral education in social work, educational goals and career expectations, prior research course work and experience, and a research proposal.
A Curriculum Vitae.
Reference letters
Two; one academic and one professional.
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in writing and speaking; 60 in reading and listening).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in academic writing and oral communication courses and B+ in other courses.
Deadlines
For admission on September 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: December 1 application deadline
International students: December 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Faculty of Social Work
MacKimmie Tower (MT) 301
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5942
Visit the
Faculty of Social Work website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Social Work
Certificate
Course-based MSW
Thesis-based MSW
Educational Research
Course-based MEd (Interdisciplinary)
Course-based MEd (Specialist)
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based EdD
PhD
Law
Certificate (Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law)
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
Nursing
Certificate
Diploma
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Highlights of the Social Work program
Creating Meaningful Experiences for Neurodivergent People
Dr. David Nicholas’ Vocational Abilities Innovation Lab is internationally acclaimed for its innovative approach in supporting autistic and other neurodivergent youth and adults.
Read More
Making neighbourhoods more liveable for older adults
As our population ages, it’s becoming increasingly important to ensure that Canadian neighbourhoods are liveable for everyone, which is the focus of Dr. Yeonjung Lee’s innovative research.
Read more
Leading Field Education Innovation
Finding meaningful practicum opportunities is a growing crisis in social work. Dr. Julie Drolet leads a national/international group that is finding surprising solutions.
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary