Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/social-work-msw-course

Social Work
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
The Master of Social Work (MSW) is a nationally-accredited program that prepares students for advanced professional practice in social work. The course-based route is appropriate for students who intend to provide direct service in the field.
Students are required to attend the residency attached to their program, which may be in Calgary or Edmonton.
Students holding an accredited Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree are admitted directly into a 24-month course-based MSW program. Students admitted to the MSW with a non-social work degree complete 9 foundation courses (in 12 months) followed by the 24-month program.
Completing this program
Courses:
Students must follow the prescribed curriculum plan for their specialization and complete all 12 courses (36 units) if they entered the program with a BSW or 21 courses (63 units) if they entered the program with a non-social work undergraduate degree.
Specializations
Clinical Social Work Practice (CSWP)
International and Community Development (ICD)
Leadership in the Human Services (LHS)
Laddered Pathway
The MSW Laddered Pathway is designed for BSW graduates.
Students entering the course-based MSW through the laddered pathway must apply to and complete the
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Social Work Practice (ASWP)
(12 units) and apply to and complete one of the certificates:
Graduate Certificate in Clinical Social Work Practice (CSWP)
,
Graduate Certificate in International and Community Development (ICD)
,
or
Graduate Certificate in Leadership in the Human Services (LHS)
(12 units) in any order. Admission to the MSW program is not guaranteed. Upon acceptance to the MSW, students complete the final component (12 units) of this full-time degree.
Outcomes
Hospitals/community health centers, mental health clinics, schools, non-profit/advocacy groups, government, social service/child welfare/family service agencies, correctional facilities, social housing, family courts, employee assistance programs, private counselling, school boards, consulting.
A course-based master’s degree in social work is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
Students with a BSW complete 12 courses (36 units).  Students with a non-social work degree must complete all 9 foundation courses (27 units) prior to taking their specialization courses (36 units).
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Online delivery
The MSW course-based program in all three specializations will be offered by distance (online) learning with in-person residencies in Calgary or Edmonton. Online courses consist of a mix of real time classes at set times and learning that can be done on your own schedule. Students not attending residencies may be required to withdraw from the course or the program.
Please consult the
website
for specific program delivery information.
Time commitment
Program length is two or three years of full-time study dependent on entry route. You must take courses when they are offered – there are no scheduled breaks; six years maximum.
Supervisor
No supervisor is required.
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission Requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree from an accredited/recognized* institution or a four-year bachelor’s degree in another discipline. The degree must be conferred prior to the May program start.
*The Faculty of Social Work recognizes BSW degrees accredited by the Canadian Association for Social Work Education (CASWE), the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE), and international credentials deemed equivalent to a Canadian BSW degree by the Canadian Association of Social Workers (CASW).
Work samples
None
Work experience
Applicants must have the equivalent of two years of full-time paid work or a minimum of 3,000 hours of paid and/or volunteer work in the human services field.
Documents
A program proposal outlining the applicant's social work perspectives and educational goals.
Resume
Reference letters
Two; one professional and one academic
Test scores
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (academic version with no section less than 6.0).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (no less than 70 in writing and speaking; 60 in reading and listening).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in academic writing and oral communication courses and B+ in other courses.
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents: November 1 application deadline
International students: November 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Faculty of Social Work
MacKimmie Tower (MT) 301
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 1N4
403.220.5942
Visit the
Faculty of Social Work website
Email:
fsw.studentservices@ucalgary.ca
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Social Work
Course-based Certificate
Thesis-based MSW
PhD
Educational Research
Course-based MEd (Interdisciplinary)
Course-based MEd (Specialist)
Thesis-based MA
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based EdD
PhD
Law
Certificate (Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law)
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
Nursing
Certificate
Diploma
Course-based MN
Thesis-based MN
Course-based MN/NP
PhD
Psychology
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Sociology
Thesis-based MA
PhD
Highlights of the Social Work program
Creating Meaningful Experiences for Neurodivergent People
Dr. David Nicholas’ Vocational Abilities Innovation Lab is internationally acclaimed for its innovative approach in supporting autistic and other neurodivergent youth and adults.
Read More
Making neighbourhoods more liveable for older adults
As our population ages, it’s becoming increasingly important to ensure that Canadian neighbourhoods are liveable for everyone, which is the focus of Dr. Yeonjung Lee’s innovative research.
Read more
Leading Field Education Innovation
Finding meaningful practicum opportunities is a growing crisis in social work. Dr. Julie Drolet leads a national/international group that is finding surprising solutions.
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary