Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/sustainable-energy-development-msc-course

Sustainable Energy Development
Master of Science (MSc)
Course-based program
Start your application
Program overview
This master’s degree is an interdisciplinary graduate program providing a balanced education related to energy and environmental management.
A combined offering through the School of Public Policy, Haskayne School of Business, Schulich School of Engineering, School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape, and the Faculty of Law, it is a singular and innovative program designed for professionals and students seeking a comprehensive education in sustainable energy.
The curriculum is delivered by recognized experts, leading academics, and professionals from the associated faculties who work together to ensure the courses are relevant to today’s energy sector.
Our alumni can be found in a variety of roles within oil and gas, renewable energy, government organizations, and environmental consultation.
Completing this program
Courses:
Topics include renewable energy, water pollution, air pollution, environmental law, planning and energy economics and more.
Research Project:
Students complete an interdisciplinary project as a part of the course work.
Additional Requirements:
Students will have the opportunity to participate in seminars, upgrade workshops, and field trips.
Outcomes
Renewable/non-renewable energy, regulation, government relations, financial analysis, environmental/social and LEED consulting, urban planning, sustainable design, environmental management, GHG reduction, reclamation of contaminated sites, clean air/water tech, aboriginal and stakeholder engagement.
A course-based master’s degree in sustainable energy development is usually considered a final degree.
Course-based program
16 courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
16 months full time; six years maximum
Supervisor
No supervisor is required
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A four year baccalaureate degree, or equivalent from a recognized institution.
Documents
An up-to-date CV
A letter of intent addressing the following four points, in your own words, as clearly and concisely as possible – only the first 250 words in each answer will be read:
Describe how, considering your career progress to date, an MSc in Sustainable Energy Development fits in with your future career goals.
Expand on the above by describing the strengths, ambitions and experience you will bring to the program.
A capstone project is a requirement of this program. The work must be interdisciplinary, reflecting a minimum of three areas of study, with energy and environment as the two anchors. What new and innovative ways will your project contribute to current knowledge?
Describe your ability to work in a team atmosphere and its contributed to your successes.
Reference letters
One academic and one professional reference (direct reports to supervisor and or manager). For applicants who have been absent from studies for five years or more, two professional references will suffice.
Work experience
Two years of professional work experience after graduation.
Test scores
None
Work samples
None
English language proficiency (ELP)
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iB
T including TOEFL iBT Home Edition)
minimum score of 86 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 6.5 (with no section less than 6.0).
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 180.
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 59 or higher
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
overall score of 70 (no section less than 60).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
minimum of B+ in each course.
Duolingo English Test
obtaining a minimum score of 125 (with no sub-score below 105).
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements.
Deadlines
For admission on May 1:
Canadians and permanent residents:
Dec. 1 application deadline (early admission)
Feb. 28 application deadline
International:
Dec. 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Sustainable Energy Development graduate program
University of Calgary, Downtown Campus
906-8th Avenue SW, Room 535
Calgary, AB T2P 1H9
403.220.2013
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Chemical and Petroleum Engineering
Course-based MEng
Cohort-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Civil Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Course-based MEng
Course-based MEng (Software)
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Environmental Design
Thesis-based MEDes
PhD
Geomatics Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Law
Course-based Certificate (Natural Resources, Energy and Environmental Law)
Course-based LLM
Thesis-based LLM
Management
Course-based MMgmt
Course-based MBA
Thesis-based MBA
Course-based Executive MBA
Course-based Global Energy MBA
Thesis-based DBA
PhD
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary