Link: https://grad.ucalgary.ca/future-students/explore-programs/veterinary-medical-%20sciences-phd

Veterinary Medical Sciences
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Thesis-based program
Start your application
Program overview
Our graduate program is preparing the next generation of international leaders in animal and public health. Students will expand on their understanding of core competencies in veterinary medical sciences. They will acquire specialized expertise through the course of their thesis projects, deepening their skills as they embark on careers as highly-trained academics and professionals.
The graduate mission of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine is to be a world leader in the training of animal health researchers and postgraduate veterinarians, creating experts who will advance animal and public health as well as the veterinary profession.
Completing this program
Core courses:
Students take courses in professional skills in health science research and biostatistical methods.
Seminar:
Students will be required to give two seminars during their time in the program.
Thesis:
Students will be required to submit and defend an original research thesis.
Additional Courses:
Topics may include biology of laboratory animals, stem cell biology and regenerative medicine, parasitology and more.
Candidacy:
Students will complete a research proposal and both oral and written candidacy exams.
Specializations
Wildlife Health and Ecology
Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine (see
Interdisciplinary Specializations
)
Outcomes
Academia; government (regulatory--food safety; water safety); feedlot; zoos; centre for disease control; biotechnology; pharmaceuticals; vaccine development; diagnostic pathology.
A PhD in Veterinary Medical Sciences is usually considered a final degree for pursuing academic and non-academic careers in the above sectors.
Thesis-based program
Students are required to prepare a thesis and successfully defend in an open oral defense.
Courses
Four courses
Learn more about program requirements in the Academic Calendar
Classroom delivery
Time commitment
Two years full time; six years maximum
Supervisor
A supervisor is required; potential supervisors must be listed when applying to the program
Fees and funding
See the Graduate Calendar for information on
fees and fee regulations,
and for information on
awards and financial assistance
.
Virtual Tour
Explore the University of Calgary (UCalgary) from anywhere. Experience all that UCalgary has to offer for your graduate student journey without physically being on campus. Discover the buildings, student services and available programs all from your preferred device.
Take the FGS Virtual Tour
Supervisors
Learn about faculty available to supervise this degree.
Please note: additional supervisors may be available.
Contact the program
for more information.
Faizal Abdul-Careem
Accepting Inquiries
Avian viral immunology
Herman Barkema
Accepting Inquiries
Jeff Biernaskie
Accepting Inquiries
Johnathan Canton
Accepting Inquiries
Immunology
Prasanth Chelikani
Accepting Inquiries
Obesity, Diabetes, Nutrition
Eduardo Cobo
Accepting Inquiries
Innate immunity in the gut
Alastair Cribb
Unavailable
Pharmacogenetics, Molecular toxicology
Jeroen De Buck
Accepting Inquiries
Rob Deardon
Seeking Students
Ina Dobrinski
Unavailable
Biology of male germ line stem cells
Pagination
Current page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Items per page
10
All
Admission requirements
GPA
A minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 point system, over the past two years of full-time study (a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents or 60 units) of the undergraduate degree.
Minimum education
A Master's degree from an accredited institution with course work appropriate for VMS graduate training from a recognized institution.
Work samples
None
Documents
Curriculum Vitae, and a Letter of Understanding signed by the prospective student and supervisor with a statement outlining the supervisor’s commitment to the training of the student, as well as their commitment to fund the student in accordance with the minimum VMS guidelines.
Reference letters
Two
Test scores
None
English language proficiency
An applicant whose primary language is not English may fulfill the English language proficiency requirement in one of the following ways:
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL ibt)
score of 97 (Internet-based, with no section less than 20).
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
score of 7.0 (minimum of 6.0 in each section).
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
score of 68, or higher (Academic version).
Canadian Academic English Language test (CAEL)
score of 70 (70 in some sections – up to the program, 60 in all other).
Academic Communication Certificate (ACC)
score of A- in one or two courses (up to the program), “B+” on all other courses.
Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency
minimum score of 191.
*Please contact your program of interest if you have any questions about ELP requirements
Deadlines
For admission on September 1
Canadians and permanent residents: Jun. 1 application deadline
International students: Jun. 1 application deadline
For admission on January 1
Canadians and permanent residents: Nov. 1 application deadline
International students: Nov. 1 application deadline
For admission on May 1
Canadians and permanent residents: Mar. 1 application deadline
International students: Mar. 1 application deadline
For admission on July 1
Canadians and permanent residents: May 1 application deadline
International students: May 1 application deadline
If you're not a Canadian or permanent resident, or if you have international credentials, make sure to learn about
international requirements
Are you ready to apply?
Application process
Learn more about this program
Veterinary Medical Sciences Graduate Program
Veterinary Medical Sciences Graduate Programs (Foothills Campus)
TRW 2D08, 3280 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 4Z6
403.210.8764
Contact the Graduate Program Administrator
Visit the departmental website
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
TRW 2D01
3280 Hospital Drive NW
Calgary, ABT2N 4Z6
403.210.3961
Visit the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine website
Learn more about UCalgary by taking a
virtual tour
Related programs
If you're interested in this program, you might want to explore other UCalgary programs.
Veterinary Medicine
Thesis-based MSc
Biomedical engineering
Course-based MEng
Thesis-based MSc
Thesis-based PhD
Medical Science
Thesis-based MSc
PhD
Highlights of the Veterinary Medicine program
Battling parasitic worms in the developing world
John Gilleard is bringing knowledge of parasites in livestock to understand parasites in humans
Read More
Understanding the link between antimicrobial use and resistance
William Ghali is investigating the use of antibiotics in food animals and its impact on human health
Read more
Gentle giants
Vet med researchers are looking at the effects of competing in the Stampede's Heavy Horse Pull
Read more
Curious about the University of Calgary?
Located in the nation's most enterprising city, we are a living, growing and youthful institution that embraces change and opportunity with a can-do attitude.
Learn More about student life at UCalgary