Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/major-in-ancient-civilization

Skip to content
Major in Ancient Civilization (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Ancient Civilization (B.A.)
Request Information
Loading…
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Art History
History
Jewish Studies
(concentration)
Philosophy
The deep past informs our vital present.
Much of Western culture flows from the civilizations that flourished in the Mediterranean before the birth of Christ. From politics to architecture, Western culture bears the stamp of its origins in these ancient societies. Understanding the cultural impact of these civilizations is essential to understanding the current world.
The curriculum for the major in ancient civilization, leading to a bachelor of arts degree, spans art history, Jewish studies, and philosophy, and includes classical languages and literature — you’ll gain a working knowledge of classical Greek, Hebrew, or Latin. Armed with these skills, you’ll draw connections and conclusions that link some of the oldest societies on earth with the most timely and pressing issues facing the modern Western world.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Ancient Civilization at Clark?
Experience a broad, rich program of learning in this intensely interdisciplinary major, based in the
Department of Language, Literature, and Culture
.
Acquire basic facilities in one or more ancient languages — Latin, ancient Greek, or Hebrew — enabling you to access that culture’s literature, philosophy, and history.
Plant your feet, expand your mind, and nourish your soul in the ancient soil of Mediterranean countries such as Greece, Israel, Italy, Jordan, and Turkey.
Ancient Civilization
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
ARTH 106
PLS
Introduction to Archaeology
From temples to dumps, the things people left behind provide valuable—sometimes the only—clues to past civilizations. Here you’ll trace the history and methods of archaeology by focusing on the Mediterranean region.
PHIL 250
Plato
Immerse yourself in the mind of one of the most brilliant philosophers of all time. Student of Socrates and teacher of Aristotle, Plato helped shape Athens’ Golden Age, and his works remain highly relevant today.
ARTH 114
Ancient Cities and Sanctuaries
Travel back to examine the great urban and religious centers of the ancient Mediterranean world and the peoples that nurtured them. Explore the concept of ‘city,’ their design, and factors affecting town planning.
ARTH 109
Greek Myth and the Classical Ideal in Art
In class and on visits to local museums, you’ll explore selected Greek myths and the concept of the “Classical ideal” as expressed in art—and manipulated for political purposes—from ancient Greece to the present.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Ancient Civilization Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The major in ancient civilization is designed to provide you with a sound knowledge of the ancient Greco-Roman and Judaeo-Christian roots of Western civilization. You are expected to acquire a working knowledge of at least one of the principal languages of the ancient Mediterranean (Classical Greek, Hebrew or Latin); this ensures you direct access to the culture, literature, philosophy, and history of the ancient world.
The major requires the successful completion of at least 10 courses, including
Two foundation courses
At least one course at or above the intermediate level in Greek, Hebrew, or Latin
A senior seminar, preferably to be taken during the second semester of the senior year
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the ancient civilization honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice.
Related Programs
Art History
History
Jewish Studies (concentration)
Philosophy
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your ancient civilization knowledge into practice.
The ancient civilization major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of internship opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience that complements your on-campus experience. Clark approves semester, year-long, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
website, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
You also are eligible to apply for admission to the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, where you can spend a semester studying classical literature and archaeology.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty areas of expertise include the Hebrew Bible, classical art and archaeology, material culture, and Greek philosophy.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice, during the academic year or during the summer.
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects presented by ancient civilization students and recent alumni include:
Ovid in The Archive
The Ancient Quarrel Between Philosophy and Poetry
The Golden Ibex from Akrotiri
The Reconstruction of the Corinthian Capital at Antiochia ad Cragum
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by ancient civilization majors from Clark include:
American Jewish University, Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies
Brandeis University, M.A. in Ancient Greek and Roman Studies
The College of William and Mary, Marshall Wythe Law School
Boston University, Ph.D. in Classical, Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies and Archaeology
Career Outcomes
Saul Mirowitz Jewish Community School
Rabbi and Director of Jewish Life
AeroVenture Flight Center
Founder, President and CEO
Boston Technologies, Inc.
Associate Product Manager
State of New Hampshire
2nd Circuit Court - District Division; Prosecutor
PNC Bank Corporation
Senior Operations Specialist
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Language, Literature and Culture
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy