Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/concentration/concentration-in-arabic-studies

Skip to content
Concentration in Arabic Studies
Home
Academics
Concentration in Arabic Studies
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Why Study Arabic at Clark?
Connect through language to new ways of seeing the world
The Arab world, with the social and cultural dialogs shaped by the Arabic language, Islamic culture, and the history of its diverse regions, offers a rich field of study for students of all majors. A knowledge of the Arabic language can give you an important edge in business, diplomacy, intelligence, engineering, international development, and academia. The U.S. Department of State has identified Arabic as one of the key Critical Languages, and provides numerous scholarship opportunities for university students.
As a student in the Arabic Studies concentration,
you’ll gain a foundation in the language, acquiring basic speaking skills while getting an introduction to the Arabic writing system. You’ll also gain an understanding of contemporary Arab culture and develop cultural awareness through scholarly research, literature, and media from the Arab world. Choose from a range of elective courses in the history of art, political science, history, sociology, and women’s and gender studies that support your unique academic area of interest.
Minimum number of courses to complete this concentration: 6
Requirements and Courses
Language Placement
Please use the chart on the department’s main web page to determine what course level to take, depending on how many previous years of the language you’ve had. The University reviews transcripts to ensure that students are not over-qualified for a particular course. Students with native or near-native fluency in a language should consult with the coordinator in that language to determine the appropriate level.
For more on language placement, please consult the
Department’s Language Placement Guidelines page.
Hands-On Learning
As a complement to this concentration, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research.
Careers
A foundation in Arabic Studies is an asset to those seeking advanced education or careers in business, finance and banking, journalism, translation and interpretation, foreign service, or intelligence.
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy