Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/asian-studies

Skip to content
Major in Asian Studies (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Asian Studies (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
History
Political Science
Geography
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Explore a region of inspiration and influence.
The scope of Asian Studies is broad, covering some of the world’s oldest cultures. Through hands-on learning and study abroad opportunities, you’ll explore firsthand the history, politics, economics, and cultures of the eastern, southeastern, and southern regions of Asia.
Leading to a bachelor of arts degree, the Asian Studies major is multidisciplinary, challenging your fluency in the social sciences, humanities, arts, and business. From immersing yourself in post-World War II Japanese literature and film to studying the rapid economic growth of China, you’ll learn about the traditions, languages, and historical contexts that shape emerging Asian countries — and will impact the entire world.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Choose Asian Studies at Clark?
Declare a focus in one of three areas — China, Japan, or the combined region of East, South, and Southeast Asia — and complete a minor (or a second major) in another department that complements your area of interest.
Complete immersive study abroad and internship experiences in China, Japan, and/or Vietnam, through one of several programs with leading institutions in those countries.
Gain functional literacy in a language relevant to your area of focus; Clark offers courses in Chinese and Japanese.
Asian studies is one of seven undergraduate programs affiliated with Clark’s
Center for Gender, Race, and Area Studies
, a community of faculty and students who study diverse, disadvantaged, or marginalized societies and populations, with an emphasis on promoting social justice.
Asian Studies
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
JAPN 280
Memory and National Identity in Post-War Japanese Fiction and Film
Since its defeat in WWII, Japan has moved from atomic desert to economic powerhouse. Explore how the work of Japanese artists has reflected memories of post-war trauma and engaged issues of national identity.
GEOG 107
PLS
Miracles of Asia: Economic Growth in Global Contexts
Why are many Asian countries (think China, India, and Japan) major players in global affairs? Through readings and class discussions, you’ll explore the reasons behind their rapid economic rise and sudden crises.
HIST 286
The Vietnam War
The ubiquitous presence of living Vietnam War veterans is a reminder of a defining moment in American history. Dig into the history and culture of Vietnam and its fraught relationships with France and the U.S.
ID 235
Trafficking: Globalization and Its Illicit Commodities
Illegal trafficking — people, animals, and controlled substances — continues to thrive around the globe. Explore the opportunities and dilemmas faced by those who study and try to eliminate these shadow economies.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Asian Studies Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
Twelve courses are required to complete the Asian studies major. You’ll choose a specialization in one of three areas: China, Japan, or the combined region of East, South, and Southeast Asia, and complete a minor (or a second major) in another department that complements your area of focus.
Attaining a level of functional literacy in an Asian language relevant to your area of specialization is a key component of the Asian studies major. You accomplish this by taking language courses, and by studying abroad for at least one semester — a full year is strongly recommended — through one of four programs:
Kansai Gaidai University near Osaka, Japan
CET Language Program in Beijing, China
CET Internship Program in Shanghai, China
CET in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Asian studies is one of seven undergraduate programs affiliated with Clark’s
Center for Gender, Race, and Area Studies
, a community of faculty and students from a variety of disciplines who study diverse, disadvantaged, or marginalized societies and populations, with an emphasis on promoting social justice.
Academic Achievement Awards
Dr. Lee Gurel ’48 Asian Studies Award
The Dr. Lee Gurel ’48 Asian Studies Award is given to an outstanding graduating senior for academic excellence in Asian studies.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Proficiency in an Asian language
Resilience, persistence, and the creativity required to understand, live in, and negotiate an unfamiliar culture
Ability to integrate your new knowledge of Asian history and culture into a deeper understanding of liberal education
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the Asian studies honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Scar Literature of the Chinese Cultural Revolution
Cinema of the Defeated: The Postwar Crisis of Masculinity in 20th Century German and Japanese Films
Horror, Eros, and Fantasy in Modern Japan
Related Programs
History
Political Science
Geography
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
“I wanted to be open to learning all that I could about a different and unique way of life. It’s part of my Chinese-American identity that I never had the opportunity to fully explore and learn about before.”
Etta Scott-Smith ’18
Minor in Asian studies
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your Asian studies knowledge into practice.
The Asian studies major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your coursework. Clark approves semester, year-long, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Asian studies majors are required to study abroad for at least one semester (a full year is recommended) in one of the following four programs:
Kansai Gaidai University, near Osaka, Japan
CET Language Program, Beijing, China
CET Internship Program, Shanghai, China
CET, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as an Asian studies student:
Asian Culture Society
Model United Nations
South Asian Students Association
Association of Martial Artists of Clark
Internships
Primary Care Coalition of Montgomery County
Maryland
Capital Markets Intern
Cushman & Wakefield in Shanghai
Kaji Aso Japanese Art Studio
Boston, Mass.
China Economic Review
Shanghai, China
Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy
Shanghai, China
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects presented by Asian studies students and recent alumni at Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day are:
Modern
kazoku
: An Exploration of Family Values in Japanese TV Dramas
Japan’s Family Planning in the 21
st
Century
The Grotesque and Mysterious in Ukiyo-e
Unbound Voices: Gender in Chinese Fiction after Mao
Western Influences in Contemporary China: Interviews Conducted Abroad
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placements
Graduate schools attended by Asian studies graduates from Clark include:
New England School of Law; J.D.
School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London; M.A. in Chinese literature
University of Colorado, Boulder; Ph.D. in comparative literature
University of California at Los Angeles; M.A. in East Asian studies
University of Rochester, New York; M.A. in film preservation
Career Outcomes
Cheng and Tsui Publishers
Boston, Mass.; sales account representative
Hopkins-Nanjing Center
Washington, D.C.; coordinator
JET Program
Teacher in Japan
CET Academic Programs
Harbin, China; resident adviser
Advanced Technology Ventures
Inventor relations
Explore the Asian Studies Program
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy