Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/biochemistry-and-molecular-biology

Skip to content
Major in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Biology
Chemistry
Health, Science, and Society
Prehealth Advising
Make sense out of life.
One of the most exciting and influential areas of science today, biochemistry and molecular biology (BCMB) exists at the intersection of biology and chemistry. Exploring the cellular and molecular building blocks of living organisms is a fascinating — and humbling — experience, as you uncover the very conditions and interactions that make life (and you) possible.
Leading to a bachelor of arts degree, the biochemistry and molecular biology major puts you on the fast track to discovery, allowing you to engage in research as early as your first year, co-author research papers with faculty members or graduate students, and present those papers at professional conferences. Whether you choose to enter the industry or pursue an advanced degree, you’ll graduate ready to hit the ground running.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Clark?
Pursue your degree — and valuable internships — in a region with a national and international reputation for excellence in biomedical innovation and education, including the University of Massachusetts Medical School and biotech companies that are right here in Worcester.
Combine traditional “wet lab” biochemistry with chemical, biological, and computational tools to solve biology questions.
Conduct research in Clark’s LEED Gold-certified Lasry Center for Bioscience, a 50,000 square-foot, state-of-the-art facility, and use specialized
biology
and
chemistry
research equipment normally found only in much larger departments.
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
BCMB 131
Recombinant DNA
This lab-oriented course will have you making (recombining) new DNA from two or more existing DNA strands, often from different organisms. You’ll deploy a range of techniques as part of a semester-long project.
BCMB 237
Chemistry and Biology of Medicine
Explore how currently available drugs interact with biological systems at the molecular level to combat a range of infections and diseases, and read journal articles to see examples of drug development research.
BCMB 279
Computers in Biochemistry
Gain experience using software packages to analyze chemical and biochemical systems retrieval, such as analysis of DNA and protein sequence information, and simulations of protein dynamics and ligand binding.
BIOL 143
Neuroscience
Our nervous system enables us to learn, remember, think, and experience emotion. Explore how these critical systems develop and function—especially in mammals—and their relationship to behavior and disease.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The biochemistry and molecular biology major is highly structured and requires a solid grounding in biology and chemistry, as well as courses in physics and calculus. You also will take biochemistry, a yearlong course sequence that reviews our current understanding of the field, before moving on to more advanced courses, one of which must fulfill a techniques requirement.
Our robust
Prehealth Advising Program
is available if you’re interested in pursuing a career in the health profession.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
How to design a hypothesis, and collect and interpret relevant data
How to communicate information orally and in writing
How to work as part of a team
Facilities
Learn about our
biology
and
chemistry
facilities and equipment available for teaching and research, and the resources at Clark’s
Carlson Science Library.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the biochemistry and molecular biology honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Effects of Light-Emitting Diodes on the Light Harvesting System of Green Photosynthetic Bacteria
Understanding the Function of KIFAP3 and Its Possible Role in ALS
Biophysical Studies of the Self-Assembly of the Amyloid b-2 Protein in the Presence of Rifamycin SV
Gene Delivery Via Functionalized Poly(ethylene imine)-DNA Polyplexes
Biochemical and Genetic Analysis of Octopamine Biosynthesis
Related Programs
Biology
Chemistry
Health, Science, and Society
Prehealth Advising
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your biochemistry and molecular biology knowledge into practice.
The biochemistry and molecular biology major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development. Some students choose to intern at Worcester’s University of Massachusetts Medical Center and frequently find that such experiences can lead to summer fellowships or admission to graduate or medical schools.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus experience. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a biochemistry and molecular biology student:
Clark Emergency Rapid Response
Timmy Global Health
Pre-Health Society
Internships
Allegheny County Medical Examiner's Office
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Abbott Bioresearch Center
Worcester, Mass.
Cummings School Of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University
N. Grafton, Mass.
CytRx Corp.
Los Angeles, Calif.
Genzyme
Cambridge, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty members have research interests in these subfields of biochemistry and molecular biology, among others: molecular modeling, protein chemistry, cell division, enzymology, signal transduction, molecular evolution, computational genomics, and gene expression. Join other BCMB, biology, and chemistry students, both graduate and undergraduate, at weekly seminars sponsored by the
Chemistry
and
Biology
departments, featuring a variety of research topics.
The opportunity to conduct research in an active laboratory can be a defining experience of your undergraduate education. Participation in research shows you real-world applications of classroom knowledge and skills, and provides invaluable experience whether you want to pursue a career in industry or go on to medical, veterinary, or graduate school.
You can get involved in research in different ways. You might conduct research as part of a research course or internship, or participate informally in faculty research during your spare time. You can also apply to our summer research program. Typically, about a dozen students each receive a stipend of $3,000 – $3,500 to live on campus for 10 weeks while working with a specific Clark faculty member. Another option is to apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Collaborate with Faculty and Present Your Research
Collaborate with faculty
Some students co-author papers with a faculty mentor and attend professional conferences where they present their research and network with other science professionals. Examples include (names of Clark undergrads are indicated by *):
Kokil, A., Renna, A.*, Kumar, J., and Granados-Focil, S. “Synthesis and Characterization of Triazolium Iodide Ionic Liquid Electrolyte for Dye Sensitized Solar Cells.”
Journal of Macromolecular Science, part A, Polymer Chemistry
, 2011, 48: 1022.
Wu, H., Canfield, A.*, Adhikari, J., and Huo, S. “Quantum Mechanical Studies on Model a-Pleated Sheets.”
Journal of Computational Chemistry
, 2010, 31: 1216–1223.
Zellers, R. G.*, Drewell, R.  A., and Dresch, J.  M. “MARZ: An Algorithm to Combinatorially Analyze Gapped
n
-­mer Models  of  Transcription Factor Binding.
BMC Bioinformatics,
2015, 16: 30.
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects presented by biochemistry and molecular biology students and recent alumni include:
Probing the Oligomerization of C-Terminal Binding Protein: The Effects and Implications of Site-Directed Mutagenesis on Tetramer Formation
Studying the Inhibition of Lysyl Oxidase and Other Amine Oxidase
Utilization of BioID to Explore Nuclear Proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum
Generating Novel Genotypes in the Drosophila sl Gene
Preparation and Characterization of Model Membranes for the Elucidation of Membrane-Catalyzed Amyloid Formation by the Amyloid-ß Protein
Research involvement at this level provides you with an excellent background for future graduate work in biochemistry and molecular biology, and a breadth of experience that will assist you in future work in the allied health, teaching, or other science-related fields.
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
Aaron Bogle discusses the biochemistry research he presented at Fall Fest
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
With a biochemistry and molecular biology major, you can attend graduate school to further your knowledge of the field, or to train as a health professional (doctor, dentist, veterinarian, nurse, physical therapist, physician’s assistant, or pharmacist). The major also provides an excellent foundation for those wanting to pursue a career in forensic science, intellectual property law, or K-12 teaching.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by biochemistry and molecular biology graduates from Clark include:
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Worcester, Mass.; M.S., Ph.D. in pharmacology
University of Colorado Boulder; Ph.D. in molecular, cellular and developmental biology
Warren Alpert Medical School at Brown University, Providence, R.I.; M.D.
University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Mass.; Ph.D., M.D.
Harvard University School of Dental Medicine, Boston, Mass.; D.M.D.
Career Outcomes
MSPCA Angell Animal Medical Center
Boston, Mass.; veterinarian
ECI Biotech
Worcester, Mass.; senior scientist
Albany Hospital
Albany, N.Y.; cardiothoracic surgeon
Biogen
Weston, Mass.; biochemist
Genzyme
Cambridge, Mass.; regulatory associate
Explore the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Program
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy