Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/major/major-in-business-economics-b-a

Skip to content
Major in Business Economics (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Business Economics (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Economics
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Management
Mathematics
Understand the systems that drive innovation
As global markets continue to evolve, the demand for professionals who can navigate economic fluctuations and provide strategic insights is on the rise. Employers are looking for candidates who can blend economic acumen with business functionality to benefit the organization.
Gaining knowledge and skills in business economics is crucial for business students because it equips them with a comprehensive understanding of economic theories and analytical tools, coupled with practical business skills. The business economics major enables students to grasp the intricacies of market operations at both micro and macro levels and develop skillsets to deliver solutions in rapidly changing business environments.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
Why study business economics at Clark?
Join a community of students and scholars in Clark’s School of Business, which has been named by Princeton Review as one of the best business schools in America; ranked 16th on Forbes’ list of America’s Most Entrepreneurial Universities; and is among the fewer than five percent of the world’s business schools to receive AACSB accreditation.
Share in our commitment to the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), which integrates sustainability and social responsibility into our research and teaching.
Learn from distinguished faculty who have extensive business experience, including serving as marketing consultants to brands like Gillette, L.L. Bean, and Godiva; as social entrepreneurs; and as advocates for sustainable business practices with foreign businesses.
Connect classroom learning with community businesses and organizations through hands-on projects that let you make a real impact on important initiatives.
Economics
Featured Courses
1
BAN 104
Introduction to Management Information Systems
Explore the strategic, organizational, technological, managerial and issues that are relevant to information systems as you learn and practice the most popular software tools through hands-on applications.
MKT 230
Marketing Management
Learn key concepts and principles while you analyze real marketing issues. Become a better consumer and master topics including research and information systems, consumer behavior, and nonprofit marketing.
ECON 258
The Economics and Policy of Food
Use the lens of applied economics to explore a wide range of issues associated specifically with the U.S. food system, then undertake a research project on the value chain of one Massachusetts-based food product.
View All Courses
The business economics path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
Studying business economics in the liberal arts tradition at Clark provide a well-rounded knowledge base, and problem-solving skills that are essential in the complex field of business economics. In our classes, you’ll learn to understand diverse perspectives, think creatively, demonstrate ethical leadership, and promote integrity and accountability in your professional life. Courses also stress putting theoretical knowledge into practice in the local community; you will complete in-depth case studies and group projects based on real business challenges and solve real-time problems for actual companies.
A total of sixteen units is required for this program.  The curriculum includes two prerequisites, six business core courses, five economics core courses, two electives, and one capstone. Students must take all courses for the major for a letter grade. A minimum of 2.0 cumulative grade-point average in major courses is required for graduation.
Students interested in combining the Business Economics major with another program of study in the School of Business can minor in that subject (Entrepreneurship, Finance, Management, and Marketing). A dual major between two majors in the School of Business is not an option.
Skills you’ll Learn
Gain a solid foundation in business, finance, management and accounting
Learn the principles in the study of economics systems, theory, econometrics and statistical analysis
Gain real-world experience through case studies, serving on internships, or working on a capstone project
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your economics knowledge into practice.
The economics major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. The
Undergraduate Economics Society
hosts career forums, panel discussions, and social gatherings as opportunities to get to know each other and stay informed on topics of mutual interest. Recent events have included a field trip to the New York Federal Reserve Bank and the New York Mercantile Exchange. A team of Clark University seniors
captured third place
in the 2015 Boston Regional College Fed Challenge, an annual competition held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
Many economics majors take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study abroad and away
Participation in a study abroad and away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
As a business economics major, you might be especially interested in the London Internship Program in England, and the Washington Center and Washington Semester program, both in Washington, D.C.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a business economics student:
Undergraduate Economics Society
Clark Investments and Trading Society
Clark Sustainability Action
Pre-Law Society
The Barefoot College
Tilonia, Rajasthan, India
Apparent Networks Inc.
Wellesley, Mass.
Seven Hills Foundation
Worcester, Mass.
Grameen Foundation
Bangladesh
Aberdare Conservation Action Group
Kenya
Silicon Valley Bank
Boston, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
.
There are different ways you can get involved in research: as part of a course, internship or honors program, or by participating in faculty research.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
The
Economics Department
sponsors a
seminar series
where you can join fellow School of Business students and faculty in discussing and learning about research trends in the field.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
By emphasizing careful thinking, analysis, and problem-solving, the economics major offers you skills that are highly valued in a number of careers and graduate programs, including banking, insurance, finance, and other business fields; planning and research in environmental and urban studies; international development; graduate study in law, public policy, and business administration; and economics as a profession, including teaching, research, and public policy.
Career Outcomes
Price Waterhouse Coopers
Associate analyst
Environmental Protection Agency
GIS Analyst
IBM
Senior Strategy Consultant
Eastern Research Group
Economic Analyst
State of Connecticut
Superior Court judge
School of Business programs
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy