Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/concentration/business-data-analytics

Skip to content
Concentration in Business Data Analytics
Home
Academics
Concentration in Business Data Analytics
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Why Study Business Data Analytics at Clark?
To make the best decisions possible, business leaders, managers, and entrepreneurs need insights about the internal operations and external environments — insights that come from a deep dive into data, past and present. As a result, demand for college graduates with analytics skills and business domain knowledge is on the rise.
As a student in the business data analytics concentration at Clark, you’ll be introduced to the specific techniques and applications used to effectively design, collect, store, access, interpret, and protect data.
Through interdisciplinary courses across the School of Management (SOM), Department of Computer Science, Department of Economics, and Department of Mathematics, you’ll gain the quantitative and analytics skills, programming knowledge, and business and economics foundation needed to make data-driven decisions.
This concentration is accessible for non-STEM students and offers direct connections to applications in business and economics. The concentration is particularly appropriate for computer science and math majors, as it provides context for understanding the needs and interpreting the results of analyses carried out by computational tools in business and economic settings. In addition, management, marketing, and economics majors would benefit greatly from the complementary skill sets in handling and analyzing information from large sets of data.
Minimum number of courses to complete this concentration: 7
Requirements and Courses
Hands-On Learning
As a complement to this concentration, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research.
Careers
A foundation in business data analytics is an asset to those seeking careers or advanced education in data science, economics, finance, marketing, business analysis, cyber intelligence, information security, artificial intelligence, product management, information technology, project management, operations research, and more.
Program Director
Professor Jing Zhang
Phone: 1-508-793-7102
Professor Ken Basye
Phone: 1-508-793-7605
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy