Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/climate-environment-and-society-b-a

Skip to content
Climate, Environment, and Society (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Climate, Environment, and Society (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Economics
International Development and Social Change
Biology
Ethics and Public Policy
Urban Studies
Build a sustainable and just future.
Climate, Environment, and Society involves the study of Earth’s natural and human systems amidst profound global environmental change. You’ll examine how earth’s climate and environment are being transformed by socioeconomic and cultural processes, and how socioeconomic and cultural conditions are, in turn, being transformed by the changing climate and environment.
This major combines expertise from several of Clark’s areas of strength: Geography, Economics, Sustainability and Social Justice, and Biology. Search for more equitable, sustainable and just pathways for the future through a problem-focused and solution-oriented curriculum that explores the various disciplinary perspectives required to understand and address climate change and other sustainability challenges.
This program will be offered in fall 2025 as a major and a minor.
Why Choose Climate, Environment, and Society at Clark?
The Climate, Environment and Society is among Clark’s signature strengths. Clark has a legacy of leadership in geography, development, urban studies, resource governance, economics, earth system science, and environmental humanities, drawing on over a century of pioneering work that is sustained today.
Learn from professors whose research — often in partnership with organizations like NASA, the National Science Foundation, Oxfam America, and the Wildlife Conservation Society — who inform international debates on topics such as socioeconomic development, landscape transformation, climate change, and urbanization.
Choose courses from more than a dozen academic disciplines for this interdisciplinary program.
Join a vibrant community of undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty who are united by a desire to address environmental challenges.
Benefit from a program that prepares you for entry into top-ranked graduate programs and employment opportunities where you can make a difference in the world.
Climate, Environment, and Society
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
MGMT 252
POP
Green Business Management
Can a business shrink its environmental footprint and still reduce operating costs?  Learn how and, as part of a team, work with a client organization to create a customized Sustainability Action Plan (SAP).
EN 277
Sustainable Consumption and Production
Investigate how — and if — changes in technology, institutions, and culture might lead to more environmentally sustainable development, and review case studies from the U.S., Europe, and developing countries.
GEOG 157
PLS
Psychogeography and Cultural Spaces
Use the lens of psychogeography to investigate how human-modified landscapes affect our emotions and behaviors. Explore how those landscapes are shaped, and how they can be modified to bring about social change.
GEOG 106
PLS
Water and the City: a Socio-Hydrology of Worcester and Its Environments
Water is an emotionally and politically charged resource. Explore our city’s water system via field trips and readings, and grapple with current issues in water and wastewater management, conservation, and planning.
GEOG 119
The Arctic in the Anthropocene
The Arctic’s rapid warming has far-reaching implications for our planet’s climate. Discover the Arctic during an age of intense human activity, and the interactions between land, atmosphere, ocean, ice, and people.
EN 282
Environmental Pollution Policy
Examine the role of science and the trade-offs inherent in crafting pollution policy in the U.S., how businesses perceive environmental policy and risks, and ways individuals can be motivated to minimize pollution.
PHYS 243
PLS
Technology of Renewable Energy
Get hands on with Clark’s microgrid by mounting solar panels, building wind turbines, and connecting electrical systems while learning about renewable energy.
MGMT 100
PLS
The Art and Science of Management
Learn basic management skills, and where and when to apply them. You’ll also learn about social responsibility and business ethics, and apply this knowledge through a community-based learning project.
PSCI 157
PLS
Environmental Politics
Why have environmental policies emerged or failed to emerge? Examine the character of policy action, public ideas, political leadership and institutional development.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
The Climate, Environment, and Society Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
After Clark
Course requirements for the climate, environment, and society major are structured so you can understand how climatic, economic, cultural, and political processes transform the earth’s environment and are, in turn, shaped by it. To complete the major, you’ll take courses distributed across six components:
CES 101: Introduction to Climate, Environment and Society
Three introductory core courses provide foundational knowledge of earth’s biophysical and societal systems.
One quantitative literacy course where you’ll develop the skills to interpret and communicate complex data
Two skills courses, with choices ranging from data visualization to GIS and analysis
Four elective Courses, including problems of practice options
A capstone credit with flexibility to complete an internship, take an upper-level course, participate in a directed study, conduct an honors project, or participate in a research experience
If you qualify, you can apply to join
Gamma Theta Upsilon
, the international geography honor society, which also serves
global environmental studies
majors. Each year, the
Graduate School of Geography
, of which the global environmental studies major is a part, recognizes three seniors and one junior with paid awards: the Ellen Churchill Semple Award, the IDRISI GIS Excellence Award, the NCGE Excellence in Scholarship Award, and the Strabo Award.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Knowledge of how the natural world and human society are mutually constitutive
Theoretical and practical skills to understand processes of physical and social change
Ability to apply classroom learning to solve real-world problems
Academic Achievement Awards
Linda Roth Memorial Activist Scholar Award
Linda Roth was a graduate of the geography Ph.D. program at Clark University and was an accomplished, award-winning forest ecology scientist and a life-long social justice and environmental activist. This award is given to an outstanding global environmental studies major who embodies the principles of scholarship and activism that Linda Roth demonstrated during her life.
Global Environmental Studies Outstanding Student Award
The Global Environmental Studies Outstanding Student Award is given to an outstanding graduating senior who is recognized for academic excellence within the global environmental studies program.
Facilities
Special facilities available to you include the
Jeanne X. Kasperson Research Library
at the
George Perkins Marsh Institute
, the
Guy H. Burnham Map and Aerial Photograph Library
,
Clark Labs for Cartographic Technologies and Geographic Analysis
, and earth system science teaching and research laboratories in polar science, forest ecology, and terrestrial ecosystem physiology.
Learn more
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the global environmental studies honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Reconciliation: Changing Pressures on Sustainable Urban Agriculture in Cuba
Characterizing the Role of the Built Environment in Determining Juvenile-Tree Survivorship in Worcester, Massachusetts
Characterizing Mangrove Distribution and Change in Antsohihy, Madagascar
A Multi-Scale Assessment of Urban Forest Biodiversity: Tree Replanting as a Driver of Street Tree Composition
Risks and Reasons of Lawn Chemicals: The Role of the Individual in Lawn Management
Honors Program Guide
Related Programs
Economics
International Development and Social Change
Biology
Ethics and Public Policy
Urban Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your global environmental studies knowledge into practice.
The climate, environment and society major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. For example, you can join the
Clark Undergraduate Geography Association
(CUGA), which includes students majoring in geography, global environmental studies, and the earth system science track of the
environmental science major
. CUGA fosters a strong sense of community by organizing academic experiences, vocational workshops, social events, and field trips.
Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a global environmental studies student:
Food Truth
Clark Sustainability Action
Outing Club
Internships
Human-Environment Regional Observatory (HERO) at Clark University
Regional Environmental Council of Central Massachusetts
Worcester Urban Gardeners Coalition
Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection
Massachusetts Audubon Society
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty have expertise in the subfields of climate change, food studies, energy, environmental justice, urban environments, and development and environment, among others.
Participating in research complements classroom learning and lets you address real-world problems. You can pursue your own research interests under the direction of a faculty mentor, or collaborate on projects with faculty and graduate students. Summer fellowships are available for qualified students to participate in the Human-Environment Regional Observatory (
HERO
) program, an intensive summer research effort focused on environmental change in New England.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present your research
Clark’s annual
Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day
are opportunities to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects students and recent alumni have presented are:
Achieving Food Security Through the Revitalization of the Cocoa Industry in Trinidad and Tobago
Modeling the Impact of Juvenile Trees on Air Temperature in the Urban Microclimate of Chelsea, Massachusetts
Coes Pond Water Quality Testing and Living Machine Prototype Development
Global Recipes for Local Kitchens: Researching Traditional Recipes from Refugee Farmers at New Lands
Fascination Turns to Exploitation: The Study of Human Domination over Elephants
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Climate, environment, and society encourages critically informed, practical work with social, ecological, and political intent. Practice opportunities might include environmental law with a major nongovernmental organization, environmental art in a science center, climate justice campaigns, pollution research, or alternative technology design.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by global environmental studies graduates from Clark include:
Harvard University Graduate School of Design; MLA (landscape architecture)
Clark University; M.S. in environmental science and policy
Clark University; M.S. in geographic information science
Career Outcomes
AIR Worldwide, Boston, Mass.
analyst
Hester Street Collaborative, New York, N.Y.
project associate
Urban Green Council, New York, N.Y.
public programs associate
Energy and Resource Solutions, North Andover, Mass.
project coordinator
Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass.
sustainability coordinator
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy