Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/major/combined-languages

Skip to content
Major in Combined Languages (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Combined Languages (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Comparative Literature
Asian Studies
Ancient Civilization
Latin American and Latino Studies
Jewish Studies
Widen your circle of conversation.
Being conversant in other languages not only helps you communicate with native speakers, it also provides insight into the people, traditions, and culture of communities and countries where those languages are spoken. As a combined languages major pursuing a bachelor of arts degree, your knowledge will broaden exponentially as you master two languages and cultures of your choosing.
One of the languages must be Spanish or French; if you wish, you can learn both, or you can select one and then add either American Sign Language (ASL), Chinese, German, Greek, Hebrew, Japanese, or Latin. By studying more than one language simultaneously, you’ll develop a unique multicultural perspective and be prepared to forge connections across cultures —  both near and far.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
Why Study Combined Languages at Clark?
Test your command of one of your chosen languages by completing two units of study abroad in a country where it is spoken, and take advantage of community-based learning opportunities in the Worcester area.
Explore and critique how national languages have been used to build and promote cultural continuity and identity through texts, films, and documentaries.
Build on your skills by taking higher-level language classes at other colleges within the
Higher Education Consortium of Central Massachusetts
, or engage in directed studies with individual professors.
Combined Languages
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
FREN 145
POP
French Translation Workshop
See what it’s like to be a professional translator! Explore the theory, techniques, and dilemmas of translating a variety of texts — from advertising and journalism to theatre and fiction — from French into English.
SPAN 238
Hispanic Literature of Political Commitment
In this course, conducted in Spanish, you’ll read and reflect on the work of Spanish-language poets, writers, and playwrights, on both sides of the Atlantic, during times of 20th-century revolutionary change.
GERM 250
German Film and the Frankfurt School
Use psychoanalytic and Frankfurt School criticism to gain insight into masterpieces of German-language cinema, including those by expressionists, Nazi, and queer German filmmakers, and post-WWII directors.
CMLT 130
The National Imagination
Explore the concept of a national community as created and critiqued through cultural texts like literature and film, and how a national language can promote a sense of cultural continuity and identity.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Combined Languages Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a combined languages major, you’ll study two (or more!) of the languages that Clark offers: American Sign Language (ASL), Chinese, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Japanese, Latin, and Spanish. You’ll focus on building linguistic and cultural competencies while you work closely with a faculty adviser to choose your course of study.
The major requires a total of 13 courses, eight of which are in languages. With the assistance of your adviser, you’ll select four additional courses that complement your language courses. A required course for all majors within the
Language, Literature, and Culture Department
— The National Imagination — explores and critiques how national languages have been used to build and promote cultural continuity and identity through texts, films, and documentaries. Finally, you’ll complete two units of study abroad in a country where one of your chosen languages is spoken — normally, these units will count toward the eight required language courses.
You can access higher-level language classes at other colleges within the
Higher Education Consortium of Central Massachusetts
, and/or engage in directed studies with individual Clark professors.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Translation; writing, oral, and reading comprehension in multiple languages; linguistics; and cultural competency and understanding
The basic building blocks of language: listening, speaking, reading and writing
Exploration of how national communities are constructed and critiqued through cultural artifacts
Facilities
Located in the Goddard Library, the Language Arts Resource Center is a multimedia language instruction center. With its extensive collection of computer programs, audio, and videotapes, students studying a new language can access multiple sources of learning. A satellite dish receives international news broadcasts from more than 25 countries though SCOLA, a nonprofit educational organization that receives and re-transmits foreign TV programming from around the world.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the combined languages honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice.
Related Programs
Comparative Literature
Asian Studies
Ancient Civilization
Latin American and Latino Studies
Jewish Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your combined languages knowledge into practice.
The combined languages major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Students who focus on Spanish can engage with the local community through service-learning work at organizations — like Centro Las Américas and Pernet Family Health Services, among others — that serve Worcester’s Hispanic community.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
You’ll complete two units of study abroad in a country where one of your chosen languages is spoken.
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure that they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a combined languages student:
French Club
Educational Studies Program
Clark University Model United Nations
Latin American Student Association
Salsa Encendida
Internships
American Antiquarian Society
Worcester, Mass.
University of Versailles
Saint Quentin, France
The Special Court for Sierra Leone
Arts Worcester
Worcester, Mass.
Augustiner Museum
Freiburg, Germany
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research and creative work
. Our faculty has expertise in a variety of areas, including French, German, Spanish, Caribbean and Latino literature and cultures, and contemporary poetics, as well as sexuality and gender studies.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. An example of a student project presented at Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day is:
Seminar Paper: “Two’s Company — A New Historical Perspective of Father-Daughter Relationships in the
Tempest
and
Les Miserables
“
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Jobs and graduate schools that combined languages majors have gone on to include:
ESL instructor in Quito, Ecuador
International Center of Worcester; program assistant
Instituto Chileno Norteamericano; English teacher
Maxwell School of Syracuse University; MPA (public administration)
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Language, Literature and Culture
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy