Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/community-youth-and-education-studies

Skip to content
Major in Community, Youth, and Education Studies (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Community, Youth, and Education Studies (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
International Development and Social Change
Sociology
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
(concentration)
Peace Studies
(concentration)
Justice is what love looks like in public.
The community, youth, and education Studies (CYES) major provides you with a strong background in youth, urban studies, and education. You will become an effective voice for social justice. You will examine how school and community programs can transform current inequities by engaging young people and their families, and help to change their social reality through educational spaces and youth programs.
CYES recognizes that activism begins at home, and prepares you to merge your classroom learning with action — on Clark’s campus and in the Worcester community. With guidance from faculty, you’ll address systemic inequality near and far, while examining your own identity and place in the world.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Major in CYES at Clark?
Complete a digital portfolio over the course of your major that outlines your accomplishments and work for change, as well as a final reflection and practice project that you’ll present before you graduate.
Engage in real, systemic community action the moment you step on campus — whether by participating in an afterschool arts and poetry program or volunteering with English language learners in Worcester.
Contribute to new knowledge through your own community-based action research, and work with leading professors to examine critical issues ranging from the achievement gap to mass incarceration.
Learn in a program featured as a “
Civic Responsibility by Design
” case study on the Association of American Colleges & Universities website.
Community, Youth, and Education Studies
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
EDUC 152
D&I
Complexities of Urban Schooling
Examine the history, goals, and challenges of schooling in the U.S., particularly in urban communities, and learn how theory and policy affect student outcomes.
ID 203
POP
Youth Work: Practice and Social Justice
Learn how community-based youth organizations can have a positive impact on youth development. Not yet a youth organization volunteer? We’ll pair you with a youth worker for a community-based learning experience.
HIST 016
PLS
American Race and Ethnicity
The U.S. is a tapestry of racial and ethnic groups. Using first-person accounts, explore the influence of diverse populations and cultures on American history, from colonial times to the present.
EDUC 254
Education in Film: Media Representations of Race, Class, Gender and Schooling
Through critical engagement with Hollywood film representations of education, you’ll learn to identify dominant educational ideologies and analyze film as both a product and producer of American society and culture.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Community, Youth, and Education Studies Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a CYES major, you’ll pass through three gateways:
Entrance to the program
Advancing to candidacy
A praxis (reflection and action) project and portfolio defense
Admission into the program is based on your commitment to work alongside members of the community and/or youth, enact change in community contexts, and explore the relationships between theory and practice.
The major requires a series of 11 courses, which are drawn from the departments of education; history; international development, community, and environment; and sociology. These courses will guide you to critically interrogate your social world, reflexively examine your social location within that world, and actively engage in social change. The curriculum includes:
One foundation course
Three theories of understanding courses
One participatory action research methods course
Three elective courses
Three courses that support your praxis project and portfolio defense
Your portfolio can be used as part of a digital résumé.
Read the
Community, Youth, and Education Studies Handbook
(PDF).
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Evaluate social, cultural, political and educational inequities
Theorize identity and reflexively examine your personal location within varied social contexts
Develop theories of social change
Construct knowledge with community members through action research
Engage in collaborative community organizing
Honors Program
The community, youth, and education studies program has a different way of awarding honors. All students majoring in CYES will complete a senior thesis and portfolio through the required three “praxis” courses. Student work will be given a final assessment of incomplete/not pass (with instructions for revision), pass, or pass with honors.
Related Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
International Development and Social Change
Sociology
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
(concentration)
Peace Studies
(concentration)
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your community, youth, and education knowledge into practice.
The CYES major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom and find ways to put your passions to good use. You should expect to participate in co-curricular events, including Difficult Dialogues seminars, special forums, and CYES student symposia.
Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a CYES student:
All Kinds of Girls
Clark University Brothers and Sisters
Educational Studies Program
Internships
HOPE Coalition
Upward Bound
Claremont Academy Poetry and Art Club
Breakthrough Collaborative
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty areas of expertise include youth work, urban education, critical pedagogy, participatory action research, immigrant academic literacy, and teacher research and inquiry, among others.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. An example of a project presented by a CYES major is:
Mic Check: Who’s got the Power: Exploring Youth Voice in Youth-Adult Partnerships
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
We see the CYES major as preparing our students not only to enter careers that currently exist, but also to adapt to a dynamic and diverse world and, more importantly, to become agents of future social, economic, and cultural transformations.
Some of the jobs you might go on to include:
Activist
Adjustment Counselor
Coach
Community Organizer
Community/Adult Educator
Career/College Counselor
Lawyer
Media Producer
Peace Corps Volunteer
Public Policy Advocate
Public Health Worker
Refugee Worker
Social Entrepreneur
Social Worker
Teacher
Union Organizer
Urban Planner
Volunteer Coordinator
Youth Worker
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Education
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy