Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/comparative-literature

Skip to content
Major in Comparative Literature (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Comparative Literature (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Combined Languages
French and Francophone Studies
Spanish
English
Stories without borders.
Stories are the anchor of cultures and civilizations both ancient and modern. They connect people in powerful ways. In the comparative literature major, you’ll explore how literature — as well as film, music, and new media — can build bridges across national borders, languages, and historical eras. You’ll enjoy a wide-ranging, multicultural program of studies, building your expertise to identify and examine an author’s message, intended audience, and communication techniques.
Through coursework and collaborations with faculty, you’ll hone your critical thinking and writing skills, and gain a nuanced understanding of cultural differences and diversity. As you do, you’ll grapple with some of life’s most important questions, and develop an understanding of the human experience.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Comparative Literature at Clark?
Study in a diverse, multicultural environment, and explore learning opportunities abroad — students previously have taken classes through Clark’s Henry J. Leir Luxembourg Program, and one Clarkie completed his LEEP project through a 17-day journey on the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Challenge and critique social constructions through robust literary analysis — from the concept of nationalism to the notion of human rights as debated during the Age of Enlightenment.
Build competency in a language other than your own, and demonstrate your knowledge by completing a literature course in that language.
This is Clark
Our Stories
Reading while riding the Trans-Siberian Railway
For his summer research project, Aviv Hilbig-Bokaer, a double-major in comparative literature and international development and social change, immersed himself in the Russian literary canon while journeying 7,000 miles on the Trans-Siberian Railway. He later received a grant from Fulbright Austria to teach English to high school students in Vienna.
This experience has given me such an incredible amount of insight into how I interact with literature and what it is about texts that I value. Literature is such an important component to understanding cultures and building bridges between others and myself.
—Aviv Hilbig-Bokaer
Class of 2017
Comparative Literature
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
GERM 250
German Film and the Frankfurt School
Use psychoanalytic and Frankfurt School criticism to gain insight into masterpieces of German-language cinema, including those by expressionists, Nazi, and queer German filmmakers, and post-WWII directors.
CMLT 109
PLS
Human Rights and Literature
Through readings, class discussions, and outreach to local human rights organizations, you’ll trace the meaning of human rights — along with who counts as human — from the Age of Enlightenment to the present day.
JS 117
PLS
Reading the Narratives of the Hebrew Bible
From Genesis to Kings, the first half of the Hebrew Bible can be read in many ways — as history, myth, or religious program. See how different peoples came to view their own stories through those found in the Bible.
SPAN 246
Studies in Spanish Cinema
Hone your Spanish while exploring Spanish films of the past 25 years in the context of political and social change in Spain, and consider how cultural ideologies and identities are formulated in this medium.
JAPN 280
Memory and National Identity in Post-War Japanese Fiction and Film
Since its defeat in WWII, Japan has moved from atomic desert to economic powerhouse. Explore how the work of Japanese artists has reflected memories of post-war trauma and engaged issues of national identity.
CMLT 130
The National Imagination
Explore the concept of a national community as created and critiqued through cultural texts like literature and film, and how a national language can promote a sense of cultural continuity and identity.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Comparative Literature Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The comparative literature major is one of several offered through Clark’s
Language, Literature and Culture Department
. As a comparative literature major, you will take at least eight courses in literature, film, or related arts from several departments and programs, including
language, literature and culture
;
English
;
art history
;
screen studies
; and
theatre arts
. These courses must include The National Imagination and a capstone course.
Courses in the major emphasize a critical approach to texts, with an eye on their cultural influences and impact. This approach may take the form of play production, seminars in the translation of lyric poetry and drama, and supervised work in contemporary critical theory (i.e., relations between text and performance, spectator positioning, and reader response).
You also are required to take two courses in a foreign language at the intermediate level or above, and to demonstrate reading knowledge of a foreign language by completing a literature course in that language.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
How to research literature, structure related arguments, and communicate your thoughts orally and in written form.
How to write a textual analysis.
How to use literature to understand and affect the world around us.
Academic Achievement Awards
J. Fannin King Memorial Award for Excellence in Comparative Literature
The J. Fannin King Memorial Award for Excellence in Comparative Literature is awarded to an outstanding senior in comparative literature.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the comparative literature honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Cinema of the Defeated: The Postwar Crisis of Masculinity in Twentieth-Century German and Japanese Films
National Contexts: Globalization and the Family Unit in Latin American Literature
Recovering Writers: Literary Works from ‘Rightists’ and ‘Counter-Revolutionaries’ after the Cultural Revolution
Related Programs
Combined Languages
French and Francophone Studies
Spanish
English
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your comparative literature knowledge into practice.
The comparative literature major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience that complements your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a comparative literature student:
International Gala
Amnesty International
Caesura Literary Magazine
Clark Film Production Society
Internships
Vogue Magazine
Massachusetts Commission against Discrimination
Boston
Centro de Orientación e Investigación Integral
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
VIDA: Women in Literary Arts
Morpho Gallery
Chicago, Ill.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
(and/or creative work). Because the comparative literature major is multidisciplinary, faculty expertise covers a wide range of subjects, including foreign languages, English, history, philosophy, and women’s and gender studies.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects comparative literature students and recent alumni have presented are:
Lost and Found: A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the TV Series
Lost
Perceptions of the Woman in Argentina:
La puta
contra
la santa
Showing Our Colors: The Afro-German Tradition
NOW’s stance on Gay Rights: The Lavender Menace and The Lesbian Continuum.
Representation of Marginalized Youth in French Language Film: A Social Criticism
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
The comparative literature major prepares you for a wide variety of career paths. In fact, it’s an excellent “pre-professional” major because it is so adaptable, combining critical thinking skills with a global perspective on the world. Graduates go on to rich, fulfilling careers in fields as diverse as publishing, education, advertising, and museum curation.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by comparative literature graduates from Clark include:
University of Madrid, Spain; master’s in English as a second language (ESL)
Hopkins-Nanjing Center for Chinese and American Studies (Johns Hopkins University and the University of Nanjing), Nanjing, China; certificate in international relations
School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, England; master’s in Chinese studies
Suffolk Law School, Boston, Mass.; J.D.
New York University, New York; master’s in journalism
Career Outcomes
Teach for America: Bronx Bridges High School; Bronx, N.Y.
Special education instructor
Rhode Island Hospital; Providence, R.I.
speech-language pathologist
Sun Microsystems; Santa Clara, Calif.
technical writer
United States Department of Defense
attorney, fraud and program counsel
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation; Washington, D.C.
country officer
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Language, Literature and Culture
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy