Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/concentration/comparative-race-and-ethnic-studies

Skip to content
Concentration in Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Home
Academics
Concentration in Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Apply
Visit Campus
Why Choose Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies?
Us — and them.
Many alumni recall Clark’s Pea Pod poster, which says, “Categorizing people isn’t something you can do here.” But the propensity of humans to categorize can be a force for good or ill, especially when applied to other people. In particular, two of those categories — race and ethnicity — have been, and continue to be, powerful social and political forces around the world.
As a student in the comparative race and ethnic studies concentration
, you’ll examine the construction of race and ethnicity, and how they intersect with other structures of identity formation such as class, gender, sexuality, nationality, and legal status. The concentration also allows you to compare U.S. experiences with those of other racially and ethnically diverse countries around the world, both past and present.
Comparative race and ethnic studies is one of seven undergraduate programs affiliated with Clark’s
Center for Gender, Race and Area Studies
, a community of faculty and students who study diverse, disadvantaged, or marginalized societies and populations, with an emphasis on promoting social justice.
While you can combine this concentration with any major, it’s an especially good complement to majors in Asian studies; community, youth, and education studies; English; geography; history; international development and social change; management; political science; sociology; and women’s and gender studies.
Minimum number of courses to complete this concentration: 6
Requirements and Courses
Hands-On Learning
As a complement to this concentration, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research.
Careers
A foundation in comparative race and ethnic studies is an asset to those seeking careers in such fields as education, social work, psychology, management, community development, and government.
Program Director
Professor Eric DeMeulenaere
Phone: 1-508-421-3750
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy