Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/major-in-creative-writing-b-a

Skip to content
Major in Creative Writing (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Creative Writing (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Comparative Literature
Media, Culture, and the Arts
Screen Studies
Theatre Arts
A way with words
From poetry to prose, fiction to nonfiction, script to screenplay, creative writing can challenge your imagination and serve as a repository for your reflections on the human experience.
As a student in the English Department’s creative writing major, you’ll learn to analyze effectively and to write persuasively in courses taught by faculty who are themselves published writers. Analysis of the work of great writers will provide you with ideas and inspiration, while interactive workshops will allow you to present your writing to classmates and receive valuable feedback.
There are several outlets for your creative writing. You can enter any of the English Department’s four annual writing contests; submit your work for publication in Clark’s student literary magazine; or publish your work on the Clark Student Voices blog.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Creative Writing at Clark?
Professional writers will be your guides you as you as you explore literary works and apply what you learn to develop and refine your own writing.
Work one-on-one with faculty in the Creative Writing Capstone course to analyze and contextualize your own creative work.
Aspiring playwrights can submit their scripts to the Visual and Performing Arts Department’s biennial New Play Festival, which produces full-length plays written, directed, and performed by Clark undergrads.
English
Featured Courses
1
CRW 206
Writing the Novel
Through careful study of published works, students will unpack the role and function of central elements of a novel and apply these techniques to their own over through weekly writing exercises.
CRW 215
POP
Publishing & Literary Journals
Students gain experience working at an online literary journal: calls for submission, reading and voting on submissions, editing accepted works, preparing the issue for launch, and working on special-editions.
View course
CRW 112
Creating Character
This course is a deep dive into creating dynamic characters, building them layer by layer, considering motivation, backstory, conflict, point of view, and voice.
View All Courses
The Creative Writing Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research and Creative Work
Careers / Graduate Study
Our program offers a range of courses, from foundational areas, such as Shakespeare, Romanticism, and global literature, to emergent fields, such as medical humanism, critical race theory, and sexuality studies. We advise English Department majors to take two historical surveys, one pre-1850 and one post-1850, early in their programs. A 100-level genre course is another good introductory class for students contemplating the major. The Creative Writing major and minor includes courses in poetry, fiction and creative nonfiction taught by professional writers. These courses guide students to examine literary works as a writer to apply what they learn to their own writing. Interactive workshops, moreover, provide the feedback that helps students to develop and refine their work. Please contact Coordinator of Creative Writing, Phil Lemos, for more information.
Our program provides a number of scholarly opportunities, such as participation in Sigma Tau Delta (our national Honors Society), our Capstone in Creative Writing, and our Honors program. We also have connections to a number of internships, such as the London Internship Program, which offers positions in the fields of theater and journalism, in addition to internships with local newspapers and journals, as well as national organizations.
The department and faculty offices are located in beautiful Anderson House. Many English courses, department colloquia, and other events take place in this historic building. We invite you to read our
blog
and our newsletter,
The English Times
[PDF], to learn more.
Qualified students are eligible for election to Sigma Tau Delta, the National Honor Society in English.
Study Abroad
The English Department has a special arrangement with the University of East Anglia in England, the Advanced Studies in English in Bath, England and the London Internship Program. For information, please consult with Professor Neuman, Chair, or Clark’s Study Abroad Programs.
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your English knowledge into practice.
In cooperation with the University’s internship office, the English Department supports internships for all majors. Internships are available both in university offices and in venues beyond the campus-for example, newspapers, news departments of radio and television stations, periodical and book publishers, and communication departments. Please consult with Professor Neuman, Chair, for further information.
As a complement to this concentration, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research. You can enter any or all of the English Department’s four annual writing contests; submit your work for publication in Caesura, Clark’s student literary magazine; or publish your work on the Clark Writes blog. Aspiring playwrights can submit their scripts to the Visual and Performing Arts Department’s biennial New Play Festival, which produces full-length plays written, directed, and performed by Clark undergrads.
Internships are available both in university offices and in venues beyond the campus-for example, newspapers, news departments of radio and television stations, periodical and book publishers, and communication departments.
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  The English Department has a special arrangement with the University of East Anglia in England, the Advanced Studies in English in Bath, England and the London Internship Program. For information, please consult with Professor Neuman, Chair, or Clark’s Study Abroad Programs.
Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a Creative Writing student:
The Scarlet
(student newspaper)
Clark Poetry Slam
Caesura Literary Magazine
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal at Clark
Internships
Phi Beta Kappa Society, Washington, D.C.
writing internship for the national office
Worcester Magazine
editorial intern
New York City Ballet Archives
archive assistant
Brown for Missouri, Clayton, Mo.
campaign aide
D'Amico & Chenelle, Worcester
legal assistant/paralegal
Smithsonian Science Education Center, Washington, D.C.
digital science writer
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty are active researchers in a variety of English subfields including medieval and Renaissance literature; contemporary literary theory; semiotics and rhetorical theory; literary treatments of ethnicity; critical and literary theory; and book history and manuscript culture.
The English Department actively supports the development of young scholars and the presentation of student research in multiple formats. As an undergraduate student in Creative Writing, you’ll receive support from faculty mentors to pursue and present your creative work, with the opportunity to present your findings. You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
The
Goddard Library
’s Rare Books Open House allows students to curate an exhibition of treasures from Goddard Library’s Special Collections. English students created and contributed to the
Mix(L)it Digital Exhibit
, a digital exhibit of mixed race literary and screen characters.
Our program facilitates scholarly research through our Capstone in English, a senior research project, and our Honors program. Please contact Professor Blake, Director of the Honors Program, for information. Also, every year The American Antiquarian Society, a prestigious national research library of American culture located in Worcester, offers seminars in specialized topics in American studies. Please contact Professor Neuman for more information.
Writing contests
Four writing contests
, with prizes awarded, are hosted annually by the English Department. They are open to all Clark undergraduates.
Loring Holmes & Ruth Dodd Drama Contest
Prentiss Cheney Hoyt Poetry Contest
Betty ’79 and Stanley Sultan Short Story Contest
Leroy Allston Ames Essay Contest
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
English majors are excellent communicators and highly adaptable, creative problem-solvers who apply their critical thinking skills to productive effect in a variety of professions. A foundation in creative writing is an asset to those seeking careers in education, digital and print media, marketing and public relations, and psychology.
Graduate School Placement—English Department
Boston University
University of London
Columbia University School of Journalism
Tufts University School of Medicine
Washington College of Law, American University
Faculty and Programs in the Department of English
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy