Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/economics

Skip to content
Major in Economics (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Economics (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Mathematics
Political Science
Geography
Management
The wealth of nations.
If you want to understand the causes and consequences of critical world issues like income inequality and economic development, you have to follow the money. As an economics major, you not only will gain an understanding of how economies work, but also will develop the problem-solving skills needed to address these issues for the betterment of all.
Clark has a long tradition of innovation in economic research and teaching that dates back to Carroll Wright, America’s first Commissioner of Labor and the first president of Clark’s undergraduate college.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Economics at Clark?
Gain relevant insights through our unusually broad and deep curriculum, with particular strengths in international economics, spatial environmental economics, applied econometrics, and development economics.
Put your learning into practice through research projects, worldwide internships, study abroad programs, and membership in Clark’s Undergraduate Economics Society.
Customize your academic program with electives and courses outside the department to align your experience with your personal interests and career or graduate school objectives.
Economics
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
ECON 232
Policy Evaluation and Education in Developing Countries
Learn the tools and methods needed to assess the impact of student education policies, and how they’ve been used in the developing world — then write a policy evaluation proposal to solve a real-world problem.
ECON 256
Modeling Ecological–Economic Systems
Master the art and science of creating computer-based simulations to model ecological-economic systems, and use them to address a range of problems by generating and testing hypotheses, and making predictions.
ECON 258
The Economics and Policy of Food
Use the lens of applied economics to explore a wide range of issues associated specifically with the U.S. food system, then undertake a research project on the value chain of one Massachusetts-based food product.
ECON 277
Urban Economics
This course invites you to learn why people around the globe want to live and work in cities, and how markets in housing, location, and education cope with the challenges of urban growth — and sometimes, decline.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Economics Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The economics major is designed to give you an understanding of the core theory of economics, frameworks for analyzing issues, how to identify and manipulate relevant data, the basic tools of statistical analysis (statistics and econometrics), and the ways such knowledge and skills can be applied to research and problem-solving.
Courses are available in international trade and finance, economic development, monetary economics and labor, environmental economics, development economics, economic history, and the economics of sport.
Eleven courses are required for the major:
Six core courses in quantitative methods and economic theory
Four elective courses in economics
One related course in mathematics (calculus is recommended)
A senior year capstone experience (this can count as one of your four electives)
In addition, we encourage you to take two courses that complement your major from outside the Economics Department. Your faculty adviser will work with you to develop a program that meets your interests and goals.
Qualified juniors and seniors can join the Clark chapter of
Omicron Delta Epsilon
(ODE), the international economics honor society. ODE offers members a number of benefits, including access to other members from around the world and opportunities to publish original research.
Read the
Undergraduate Economics Handbook
(PDF).
Academic Achievement Awards
David R. Porter ’35 Prize for Excellence in Economics
The David R. Porter ’35 Prize for Excellence in Economics was established in honor and memory of David R. Porter, a member of the Class of ’35, and Trustee of the University, by his family and friends. The award is given every fall to the outstanding senior majoring in Economics.
Harry B. and Alice N. Sheftel Endowed Prize in Economics
Awarded annually by the Economics department to an outstanding undergraduate student, except in those years when extraordinary scholarship by a graduate student or faculty member deserves recognition.
The Roger Van Tassel Book Prize
The Roger Van Tassel Book Prize is awarded each year to an outstanding freshman or sophomore in elementary economics. The award takes the form of a book such as a biography of an economist or classic work in economics. Professor Van Tassel taught at Clark for 42 years, including 21 years as Department Chair. He had a special passion for introducing undergraduate students to economics and also taught courses in international economics.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Summarize an argument in the academic literature and interpret statistical results at the level of basic regression analysis
Identify, collect, and interpret data appropriate to a topic for economic analysis
Build on existing knowledge to analyze an economic issue or conduct a positive or normative analysis of a policy proposal
Present ideas in written, oral, or other form
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the economics honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Measuring the Gender Wage Gap in Pakistan’s Education Sector
Will the Integration of Morocco to the African Union have a Positive or Negative Impact on its Economy?
Does Money Buy Happiness: An Analysis of Income’s Impact on Happiness in the United States from 1974-2016
The Effect of Socioeconomic Factors on Water Quality throughout the United States
Institutions of Integration: The Role of Educational Systems in Integrating Foreign-Born Youth
Related Programs
Mathematics
Political Science
Geography
Management
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your economics knowledge into practice.
The economics major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. The
Undergraduate Economics Society
hosts career forums, panel discussions, and social gatherings as opportunities to get to know each other and stay informed on topics of mutual interest. Recent events have included a field trip to the New York Federal Reserve Bank and the New York Mercantile Exchange. A team of Clark University seniors
captured third place
in the 2015 Boston Regional College Fed Challenge, an annual competition held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
Many economics majors take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language. After you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
As an economics major, you might be especially interested in the London Internship Program in England, and the Washington Center and Washington Semester program, both in Washington, D.C.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as an economics student:
Undergraduate Economics Society
Clark Investments and Trading Society
Clark Sustainability Action
Pre-Law Society
The Barefoot College
Tilonia, Rajasthan, India
Apparent Networks Inc.
Wellesley, Mass.
Seven Hills Foundation
Worcester, Mass.
Grameen Foundation
Bangladesh
Aberdare Conservation Action Group
Kenya
Silicon Valley Bank
Boston, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty members, who collaborate with other economists at both national and international levels, have expertise in subfields of economics including international economics, urban economics, spatial environmental economics, applied econometrics, and development economics, among others.
Housed in the oldest building on campus, Jonas Clark Hall, the
Economics Department
sponsors a
seminar series
where you can join fellow economics majors, doctoral students, and faculty in learning about and discussing research trends in the field.
There are different ways you can get involved in research: as part of a course, internship or honors program, or by participating in faculty research.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Professional conferences
Some students attend professional conferences where they present their research and network with other economics professionals. For example:
One student presented his research, “
The External Impact of CDFI Home Improvement Loans: A Study of Worcester, MA after the Crash
,” at the 2015 Association for Public Policy and Management Conference in Miami, Fla.
Another student presented his research, “The Economic Impact of Public Subsidies for Sports Stadiums,” at the 2014 Annual Meetings of the Eastern Economic Association in Boston, Mass.
Two students presented their honors theses at the 2016 American Association of Geographers (AAG) Annual Meeting in San Francisco, Calif.: “Lifting the Curtain on Myanmar’s Development”
and “The Era of GeoAccounting: predicting land value per acre based on land use patterns and network connectivity in Lafayette, Louisiana”
Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects economics students and recent alumni have presented are:
Economics and The Olympics
Measuring the Economic Benefits of Commuter Rail Service
Hammering the Sickle: Commodity price level shocks to GDP Growth
A Hedonic Measure of the Effect of Tree Canopy Cover on Real Home Prices
Real estate value and education
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
By emphasizing careful thinking, analysis, and problem-solving, the economics major offers you skills that are highly valued in a number of careers and graduate programs, including banking, insurance, finance, and other business fields; planning and research in environmental and urban studies; international development; graduate study in law, public policy, and business administration; and economics as a profession, including teaching, research, and public policy.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by economics graduates from Clark include:
Yale School of Management; MBA
London School of Economics; Master’s in economic development
Vanderbilt University, Brown University, Cornell University; Ph.D. in economics
University of California at Berkeley; Ph.D. in statistics
University of Oxford; M.Phil. in development studies
Career Outcomes
Price Waterhouse Coopers
Associate analyst
Environmental Protection Agency
GIS Analyst
IBM
Senior Strategy Consultant
Eastern Research Group
Economic Analyst
State of Connecticut
Superior Court judge
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Economics
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy