Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/minor/education

Skip to content
Minor in Education
Home
Academics
Minor in Education
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Why Study Education?
Quality education for equal opportunity
Quality education for all is an elusive goal, particularly in our cities. Whether you’re interested in learning about education for its own sake, or you’re thinking of teaching as a profession, our education minor lets you investigate this challenge through a focus on urban school reform, neighborhood renewal, and underserved communities.
As a student in the education minor
, you’ll work closely with Clark faculty —and with public-school teachers and administrators (many of whom are Clark alumni) — to support these important efforts. In addition to taking action-based and research-focused courses, you can put what you learn into practice through our
network of local partner schools
, including the nationally renowned
University Park Campus School
, a partnership between Clark and the Worcester Public Schools. You also can incorporate one of our
four-course sequences
in human services or school psychology into your education curriculum.
While you can combine this minor with any major, it’s an especially good fit (although not a requirement) for students who want to apply to Clark’s accelerated
master's degree in teaching
, with the fifth year of study tuition-free for eligible students. Majors for which a minor in education is especially relevant include international development and social change, psychology, and sociology.
Minimum number of courses to complete this minor: 6
Requirements
Hands-On Learning
As a complement to this minor, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research.
Careers
A foundation in education is an asset to those seeking careers in fields like teaching, school administration, corporate training, public administration, library science, and museum work.
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy