Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/english

Skip to content
Major in English (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in English (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
History
Comparative Literature
Creative Writing
Harness the power of words.
Students who major in English at Clark don’t just possess a love of language and literature; they have an abiding sense of the power of the word that compels meaningful contributions to the larger world. Seasoned faculty will guide you as you engage in close reading, analytical reasoning, critical thinking, and cogent writing. The program encourages the development of a sense of literary history, sensitivity to cultural values, and expansive knowledge of important authors, works, and periods of literature in English, as well as the tools to live a life of consequence.
The English major will prepare you for a wide variety of career paths; its adaptability makes it the quintessential “preprofessional” major.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study English at Clark?
Explore both foundational and emergent areas of literature and culture with experienced professors.
Work with primary archival material at Worcester’s prestigious
American Antiquarian Society
or at Clark’s own
Goddard Library Archives and Special Collections
.
Join our close-knit community of faculty and students who participate in lively intellectual and social engagements, such as
ClarkWrites
(the student-run creative writing blog), our annual alumni event
ChowderFest
, and the yearly
Undergraduate Shakespeare Conference
.
English
Featured Courses
1
ENG 263
Traumatic Tales: British Romantic Literature and Nationhood
Explore through a variety of genres how British Romantic writers attempted to articulate a homogeneous national identity by shaping discourses around class, home, and the nation-state.
ENG 260
Making Gender Through the Eighteenth-Century Novel
Did you know that gender roles became more clearly defined in 18th-century Britain? Uncover how the texts of this period helped shape perceptions of masculinity and femininity, both socially and culturally.
ENG 222
Black Political Literary Movements of the 20th Century
Explore the origins, politics, and legacies of 20
th
-century black literary and cultural movements like New York’s Harlem Renaissance, the
Afrocriollo
movement in Latin America, and the
Negritude
Movement in Paris.
View All Courses
The English Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research and Creative Work
Careers / Graduate Study
English majors and minors at Clark epitomize the voracious Clarkie. They possess an intellectual hunger that drives them to make their Clark educational experience their own. Students progress from the simpler pleasures of reading and writing to the empowerment afforded by critical engagement with a variety of texts.
The course
The Text, the World, and the Critic: Narrative and Form
is required of all English majors. In addition to courses foundational to literary studies, such as
Introduction to Shakespeare
and
Major American Writers
, you can choose from innovatively conceived and cutting-edge courses that both expand conventional fields of study and practice and link those fields with other disciplines.
You also can broaden your critical perspectives through interdisciplinary seminars. Examples of such courses have included Science Fiction and the Mind of the Other (English and philosophy), In Sickness and In Health: Narrative and the Art of Healing (English and psychology), and Freedom Dreams: Global Freedom Struggles from Decolonization to the Present (English and history). You can also apply to join, for credit, an
American Studies Seminar
offered by Worcester’s prestigious
American Antiquarian Society
, a national research library of American history.
In the fall of your senior year, you’ll take part in the distinctive English capstone experience. During this semester-long, workshop-style class, you’ll develop an independent research project of your own design that will serve as a culmination of your individualized program of study. That program might take the form of a specialization within the major, or a combination of the English major with a minor, concentration, or second major. The capstone is not only an opportunity for you to demonstrate skills emphasized in the English major, but to articulate your own academic career and to look forward to your vocation after graduation.
For the most up-to-date requirements for the major, please consult the University’s
current Academic Catalog
.
In an effort to enhance students’ opportunities for entrance into the health professions, the
Pre-health Advising Program
has a special arrangement with the English Department that allows students to
major in English while meeting the specific requirements of medical schools
.
The department and faculty offices are located in beautiful Anderson House. Many English courses, department colloquia, and other events take place in this historic building. We invite you to read our newsletter,
The English Times
[PDF], to learn more.
Qualified students are eligible for election to Sigma Tau Delta, the National Honor Society in English.
Academic Achievement Awards
William H. Carter, Jr. Prize in English
The William H. Carter Jr. Prize in English was established by Harriet R. Carter in memory of her husband, William H. Carter, Jr., an English department professor for over three decades. In addition to his teaching and scholarship, Dr. Carter chaired the department for three consecutive terms. The fund supports a prize to be awarded to an outstanding rising senior majoring in English.
Virginia Mason Vaughan Prize in English for the Most Outstanding Honors Thesis
This award was established by Clark alumni Michael and Lisa Klein Leffell to honor both Professor Vaughan and the most outstanding graduating English majors. Awards are given based on quality of research, overall conceptualization, mastery of a complex literary topic, and elegance in writing.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Principles of effective written and oral communication
Critical theory and analysis — apply critical, theoretical, and interdisciplinary approaches (such as feminist, gender studies, critical race theory, the medical humanities, and postcolonialism) to a variety of texts
Collaboration — work successfully on team projects
Integration of knowledge and skills — develop well-supported original ideas about a variety of texts, write cogent critiques, and deliver effective presentations
Cultural knowledge and how it applies to civic engagement
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the English honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
“Palpable Verb Tenses:” Non-Patriarchal Models of Readerly and Authorial Position
Gender in Conflict: A History of Iraqi Women from Ba’athism to Occupation
There Were Never Heroes: Autonomy, Identity, and the Modern Age in the Super Hero Genre
A Return to Linguistics: Morrison’s Interpretation of the Song of Songs in Conversation with
Song of Solomon
To Ourselves and Our Posterity: Fathers, Sons, and the American Dream in William Faulkner’s
Absalom! Absalom!
and Cormac McCarthy’s
Blood Meridian
Related Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
History
Comparative Literature
Creative Writing
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your English knowledge into practice.
The English major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship opportunities
during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as an English student:
The Scarlet
(student newspaper)
Clark Poetry Slam
Caesura Literary Magazine
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal at Clark
Internships
Phi Beta Kappa Society, Washington, D.C.
writing internship for the national office
Worcester Magazine
editorial intern
New York City Ballet Archives
archive assistant
Brown for Missouri, Clayton, Mo.
campaign aide
D'Amico & Chenelle, Worcester
legal assistant/paralegal
Smithsonian Science Education Center, Washington, D.C.
digital science writer
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Clark faculty research and study English subfields including medieval and Renaissance literature; contemporary literary theory; semiotics and rhetorical theory; literary treatments of ethnicity; critical and literary theory; and book history and manuscript culture.
The English Department actively supports the development of young scholars and the presentation of student research in multiple formats. You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
The
Goddard Library
’s Rare Books Open House allows students to curate an exhibition of treasures from Goddard Library’s Special Collections. English students created and contributed to the
Mix(L)it Digital Exhibit
, a digital exhibit of mixed race literary and screen characters.
Writing contests
Four writing contests
, with prizes awarded, are hosted annually by the English Department. They are open to all Clark undergraduates.
Loring Holmes & Ruth Dodd Drama Contest
Prentiss Cheney Hoyt Poetry Contest
Betty ’79 and Stanley Sultan Short Story Contest
Leroy Allston Ames Essay Contest
Present your work
Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects English students and recent alumni have presented are:
The Ambiguity of Language in Voltaire’s Translation of Shakespeare
Bentley Diary Transcription: Reconstructing the Life of an Early American Minister
Conception to Composition: Writing a First Novel
Transcending the Binary: Gender, Identity, and Representation
Betty and Beauvoir, Sally and Sartre: Mad Men’s Gendered Existentialism
Undergraduate Shakespeare Conference
Clark students in all majors can share their work at the
Annual Undergraduate Shakespeare Conference
, founded in 2001 at Clark for undergraduate students to showcase their research involving Shakespeare studies.
You can also submit your research results for publication in Clark’s student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
or have your work published on the Clark Student Voices blog.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
English majors are excellent communicators and highly adaptable, creative problem-solvers who apply their critical thinking skills to productive effect in a variety of professions.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by English graduates from Clark include:
Boston University
University of London
Columbia University School of Journalism
Tufts University School of Medicine
Washington College of Law, American University
Career Outcomes
NBC/CBS
news anchor
The Associated Press
correspondent
The Richie Language Institute
ESL teacher and writer
Massachusetts Horticultural Society
book buyer
Cunningham Law Offices
attorney
New Balance
V.P., International Sales
Faculty and Programs in the Department of English
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy