Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/minor/entrepreneurship-and-innovation

Skip to content
Minor in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Home
Academics
Minor in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Why Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Clark University?
Entrepreneurship and innovation are the foundation of change. To initiate change, one must embrace their strengths and skills, and align them with the identified needed change. Through the process of entrepreneurship and innovation, a product, service, or social cause, can be brought to market, which will inspire change and help spur growth of self and others.
Students who choose a Clark University E&I minor are supported with several related initiatives, clubs, and relevant courses, to implement their endeavor. The E&I courses are designed to help a student to identify problems, ideate solutions to those problems, and implement the best solution to bring about the desired change. Whether your interest is business ownership or social change, Clark University’s E&I minor complements any major to help you gain the full benefit of your entrepreneurial educational experience and future career goals.
Requirements
Program Recognitions and Awards
2022
Finalist Wharton OS Reimagine Education award
2021
Winner of
Global Consortium of Entrepreneurship Centers
(GCEC)
Outstanding Student Engagement and Leadership
award
2021
Chapter Induction Sigma Nu Tau Entrepreneurship Honor Society
2020
Winner of
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
(AACSB)
Innovations that Inspire Award
2015
Forbes
magazine ranked us #16 on its list of the
Most Entrepreneurial Universities
.
Experiential Learning
All courses  are designed to be experiential. If you have an innovative or entrepreneurial idea in mind, the courses build upon each other to propel your idea into a functioning reality. Additionally, the E&I program offers product and service testing venues,  internships, study abroad, and research.
The E&I faculty are entrepreneurs and business owners that have exceptional insight into venture development and are ready to share.  The E&I program also offers alternative learning platforms with product and service testing venues, department and field internships, study abroad, and research opportunities.
The E&I Program employs over 20 paid student positions each semester in areas of entrepreneurial skill development. Students develop and design the
student run website
, design content and post to program social media, host the program
podcast
, manage testing venues, coordinate program events, manage a retail storefront, manage program operations, and analyze program data. Additionally, the program has several credit-based positions in office management and teaching assistance.
Students in the News
The entrepreneurial students and their endeavors are high profile on campus.
E&I program news
School of Management Program Alignment
Clark University’s Entrepreneurship and innovation minor is offered through the
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Program
, which is part of the
AACSB-accredited the School of Management (SOM)
. Through this alignment with SOM, E&I students gain insight in business and project management through management electives that count toward an E&I minor, thus, elevating a student’s knowledge. Additionally, the innovation and entrepreneurship minor is an excellent complement to any major, adding the entrepreneurial mindset to your field of study allowing you the extra ability to facilitate change.
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy