Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/environmental-science

Skip to content
Major in Environmental Science (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Environmental Science (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Biology
Geography
Chemistry
Global Environmental Studies
Because we don’t have a backup planet
The importance of environmental science is made plain every day. The changing climate, polluted air and water, loss of biodiversity, a growing population, and food insecurity are just a few examples of our planet under pressure. It needs protection. At Clark, you’ll explore these and other pressing issues affecting our home — the Earth.
But that’s just the beginning. In addition to understanding, our planet needs action. In the environmental science major, you’ll put your learning into practice by getting out in nature, taking part in research projects, interning at environmental organizations, exploring diverse places and spaces through study abroad, and taking action both on campus and beyond.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Environmental Science at Clark?
Learn from world-class faculty who conduct field exploration, both in New England and on all seven continents, and who address sustainability challenges by analyzing problems and identifying solutions.
Examine environmental challenges from all academic perspectives — sciences, social sciences, humanities — and from the perspective of action and change.
Align the major with your personal interests by choosing from three broad areas of specialization:
environmental science and policy
,
earth system science
, and
environmental and conservation biology.
Gain experience with leading-edge methods of analysis including geospatial informatics, big data analytics, decision methods, and community engagement.
Participate in high-impact research in our
Lasry Center for Bioscience
laboratories, with the
Human-Environment Regional Observatory (HERO) Program
, and through our world-renowned
Graduate School of Geography
’s connections with international governments, science organizations, NGOs, and businesses.
Environmental Science
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
BIOL 258
POP
Small-Scale Land Conservation in Massachusetts
Participate in training activities at nearby study sites and engage with local conservation experts to gain insight into the issues and processes that shape small-scale land conservation efforts in Massachusetts.
EN 282
Environmental Pollution Policy
Examine the role of science and the trade-offs inherent in crafting pollution policy in the U.S., how businesses perceive environmental policy and risks, and ways individuals can be motivated to minimize pollution.
GEOG 245
Remote Sensing of the Cryosphere
Explore how changes in the cryosphere (glaciers, sea ice, snow, and permafrost) play a critical role in many complex earth processes, and learn how satellite technology can help us measure those changes.
EN 277
Sustainable Consumption and Production
Investigate how — and if — changes in technology, institutions, and culture might lead to more environmentally sustainable development, and review case studies from the U.S., Europe, and developing countries.
EN 207
Climate Change, Energy, and Development
In this course you’ll investigate the science of climate change and the complexities of translating it into effective policy, the uneven impact of climate change around the world, and ways to reduce that impact.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Environmental Science Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The environmental science major requires the completion of 17 to 18 courses, depending on the track selected. You’ll complete three core courses — Earth System Science, Environmental Science and Policy: Introductory Case Studies, and Introduction to Biology I, each of which provides an overview of one of three areas of focus in environmental science — and choose one area to pursue in-depth. (Learn more below.)
Environmental science tracks
Earth system science
: Earth system scientists examine the structure and function of the parts of the earth’s lithosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere, and how these systems interact with one another. This integrated science, which focuses on connections between these earth system components, is at the heart of some of our most pressing physical science and nature-societal issues, including global climate change, water availability, and the loss of biological diversity. The track emphasizes the patterns and processes across the Earth’s surface (both land and ocean), serving as an introduction to earth sciences or geosciences. Intensive field study, satellite remote sensing analysis, geographical information science (GISci), and computer simulation are all tools for understanding, monitoring, and predicting earth system behavior. The ESS track of the environmental science major trains graduates for a wide range of professional endeavors as well as more advanced studies involving physical geography, including landscape ecology, land-atmosphere interactions, hydrology, biogeochemistry, remote sensing, and GISci.
Environmental and conservation biology
: Environmental biologists explore the ways in which organisms evolve and interact with one another and their environments. Levels of exploration can range from molecular evolution and genomics to ecosystem level function. Conservation biology makes up one component of this field, focusing on the biological knowledge necessary to preserve biodiversity. Because the loss of biodiversity has reached crisis levels, we offer a focused curriculum that lets you bring appropriate biological tools and knowledge to efforts to develop conservation strategies and policies.
Environmental engineering
: This track is designed for students intending to pursue the 3-2 Program in Engineering. With pressures from population growth, urbanization, industrialization, and associated demands for materials and goods, environmental engineers find ways to anticipate and monitor natural resource shocks and natural disasters, track pollutants and reduce and manage wastes to improve environmental quality and provide clean air and water, develop safe and sustainable built environments and industries. Students will gain a solid foundation in mathematics and sciences with an orientation toward the environment, preparing them to continue with more advanced and focused studies within Columbia University’s engineering school.
Environmental science and policy
: This track will prepare you to deal with the complexities of environmental issues in a societal context. You’ll gain an in-depth understanding of how human activity impacts the natural environment, along with scientific, social science, and policy perspectives on how these impacts can be managed and mitigated. The track’s strong emphasis on the natural sciences ensures that you will understand the technical, as well as the social, aspects of the world’s most pressing environmental issues.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Design a hypothesis, and collect and interpret relevant data
Communicate scientific information orally and in writing
Work as part of a team
Academic Achievement Awards
Environmental Science Academic Excellence Award
This award is given to a graduating senior Environmental Science major in recognition of outstanding academic achievement. Awards are given based on academic excellence, commitment to breadth and depth in the field, and involvement in intellectual life outside of the classroom.
Environmental Science Research Excellence Award
This award is given to a graduating senior Environmental Science major who has delivered excellent research within the field of environmental sciences during the course of their undergraduate study. Awards are given based on research excellence, exceptional interest and ability in scientific inquiry, and commitment to pursue scientific research and applications.
Environmental Science Excellence in Practice Award
This award is given to a graduating senior Environmental Science major in recognition of distinguished effort to improve the way humans interact with the environment, natural or built. The recipient will have worked in close concert with an outside organization (e.g. government agency, NGO, etc.) putting her/his academic preparation into practice to address a real-world issue in environmental science.
Facilities and equipment
Special facilities available to you include the
Jeanne X. Kasperson Research Library
at the
George Perkins Marsh Institute
, the
Guy H. Burnham Map and Aerial Photograph Library
,
Clark Labs
, and earth system science teaching and research laboratories in polar science, forest ecology, and terrestrial ecosystem physiology.
Learn more
.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the environmental science honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
Food Security and Sustainability for At-Risk Youth in Main South Neighborhood, Worcester, Mass.
Regeneration of Subalpine Spruce-Fir Forests After Spruce Beetle Outbreaks in the Context of a Changed Climate
Profiling Pollution at a Combustion Research Center in Holliston, Mass. to Explore Public Health Implications
Limiting Leopard Predation on Livestock: Protective Cattle Enclosures as a Strategy for Human-Leopard Conflict Mitigation Around Yala National Park, Sri Lanka
Related Programs
Biology
Geography
Chemistry
Global Environmental Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your environmental science knowledge into practice.
The environmental science major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship opportunities
during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as an environmental science student:
Outing Club
Clark Sustainability Action
Herban Gardeners
Internships
National Park Service, Student Conservation Association, Triangle, Va.
exotic plant team intern
Worcester Tree Initiative, Worcester, Mass.
tree warden
Earth Limited, Southwick’s Zoo, Mendon, Mass.
intern
UMass Memorial Health Care, Worcester, Mass.
environmental health researcher
Greater Worcester Land Trust
mapping intern
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
.
As befits an interdisciplinary major, the research programs of environmental science professors span a wide range of academic fields. While most are from the Departments of
biology
,
geography
and
sustainability and social justice (formerly IDCE)
others hail from departments as diverse as
chemistry
,
economics
,
management
,
philosophy
,
political science,
and
physics
. Faculty from Clark’s
George Perkins Marsh Institute
, whose research focuses on sustainable environments for the public good, also contribute to the environmental science major. Faculty research interests include these environmental science subfields: environmental policy, environmental ethics, conservation biology, earth system science, climate change, sustainability, geographic information science, and ecology.
The HERO Program
As an environmental science major, you might be interested in applying to the
Human-Environment Regional Observatory (HERO) Program
, a unique undergraduate-graduate-faculty experience that engages in research on human-environment relationships in Massachusetts. HERO Fellows conduct hands-on research under the mentorship of Clark University faculty; their work often leads to scholarly publications, presentations at academic conferences across the U.S., and awards and honors.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present your work
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects environmental science students and recent alumni have presented are:
Forest Regeneration After Spruce Beetle Outbreaks in the Context of a Changed Climate
Nest Box Use and Habitat Preference in Tree Swallows
Morphological Characterization of Threespine Stickleback in Newfoundland, Canada
Seasonal Differences in Coral Bleaching on South Caicos Coral Reefs
Macro-invertebrate Community Structure in Streams Affected by Conventional and Organic Cranberry Cultivation
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
The environmental science major provides training for those who want to continue on to graduate school or establish management, fieldwork, or laboratory careers in areas as diverse as ecology; conservation biology; teaching; environmental planning, protection, or regulation; water or air monitoring; and policy development.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by environmental science graduates from Clark include:
Texas A&M University; M.S. in water management
Duke University; M.A. in toxicology
Oxford University Centre for the Environment, Oxford, England; D. Phil.
Boston University; M.A. in energy and environmental analysis
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; M.S. in environmental science
Career Outcomes
SRA International
junior environmental analyst
New York State Energy Research & Development Authority
associate project manager
Danaher Corporation
environmental health and safety director
Town of North Andover, Mass.
conservation consultant
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Alaska
ecologist/project manager
Explore the Environmental Science Program
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy