Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/major-in-finance-b-a

Skip to content
Major in Finance (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Finance (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Economics
Management
Mathematics
Accelerated B.A./Master’s Programs
Clark’s fifth-year Accelerated Degree Programs offer scholarships ranging from 50 to 100 percent. Finance majors might be interested in:
Business Administration
Business Analytics
Finance
Management
How Accelerated Degree Programs and Scholarships Work
From corporate finance to cryptocurrencies
Join a strong finance job market growing in positions and salaries with a bachelor’s degree in finance. Whether you plan to pursue a career related to investing or trading, corporate finance, or simply want to expand your business finance understanding to complement your current program, you’ll master key financial skills within a collaborative, supportive environment.
Today’s financial industry requires rigorous and specific training in addition to general management, economics and mathematics skills. Our program will expose you to investment analytics, capital markets, corporate finance, and emerging topics such as financial derivatives, cryptocurrencies, and green investing. You’ll be well prepared for a highly competitive industry as a socially responsible financial manager, investment banking analyst, or advisor, among other positions, in both private and public sectors.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Finance at Clark?
Join a community of students and scholars in Clark’s
School of Management
, a business school regularly named by Princeton Review as one of the best in America, and which also is among the less than 5 percent of the world’s business schools to receive
AACSB accreditation
.
Gain a strong foundation in basic quantitative skills, moving into more analytical approaches to finance.
Learn from distinguished faculty who have extensive experience in senior positions at leading investment firms, as well as those who research timely finance topics, including sustainability and climate-risk investing.
Connect classroom learning with community businesses and organizations through hands-on projects that let you make a real impact on important initiatives.
Have the chance to be part of the student-run Clark University Investment and Trading Society, one of our most active student clubs.
Marketing
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
FIN 240
Corporate Finance
Learn the basic concepts, principles, and analytical techniques of corporate finance, including the time-value of money, valuation of securities, valuation of corporate investments, risk and return, and more.
FIN 241
Investment Management
Explore fundamental concepts in investments and acquire the analytical tools and financial theory necessary to value financial assets and make sound investment decisions.
FIN 242
Capital Markets
Examine long-term financing sources available to investors and learn about the different sources of capital, the investors and borrowers of capital, and how capital markets affect investment decision making.
ECON 213
Money and Banking
Analyze money, commercial banking, and central banking with an emphasis on monetary policy implementation by the Federal Reserve System and the resulting economic impact both nationally and internationally.
MATH 210
Introduction to Quantitative Finance
Explore the time value of money, portfolio theory, capital market theory, and security price modeling.
ENT 211
Creating a Movement
To successfully implement change through entrepreneurship or social innovation that supports you toward a common goal. This problem-based course, you’ll explore decision-making processes and develop real solutions.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Finance Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
Clark’s finance curriculum will equip you with a competitive edge in your career. As a finance major, you’ll become well-versed in a variety of areas, including market landscape analysis, due diligence (financial, legal, business), comparative analysis, and more.
You’ll also be exposed to basic management and business functions, including accounting, information systems, and marketing. All the while, you’ll be part of Clark’s liberal arts mission to help students gain the critical thinking and communication skills that are vital to the success of today’s finance professionals.
The finance major requires 12 units of courses, including seven business core courses, one capstone course, three finance required courses, and one elective course.
A Clark education extends beyond the classroom. Through the
Career Connections Center
, discover internship opportunities that complement your coursework and put your marketing knowledge into practice.
Other opportunities for enhancing your out-of-classroom experience includes the popular Investment and Trading Society, as well as study abroad. On Clark’s
Study Abroad and Away site
, search programs by academic interest, location, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser. Attend one of the School of Management-sponsored events, and meet and network with prominent alumni in the field of finance.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate, you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Areas of research might include::
Alternative investments
Consumer choices around sustainable consumption
Cryptocurrency
Corporate sustainability practices
Read additional examples of
School of Management research
.
Many courses also include investigative components in which students research and report on the challenges and opportunities facing real companies and portfolios.
School of Management graduates have earned positions as portfolio managers, investment banking analysts, equity and fixed income analysts, financial analysts and associates, and financial advisers at various financial institutions, including:
State Street Corp.
Fidelity Investments
Goldman Sachs
Ernst and Young
You may also choose to advance your knowledge and career opportunities by enrolling the School of Management’s
Master’s in Finance
program.
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy