Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/french-and-francophone-studies

Skip to content
Major in French and Francophone Studies (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in French and Francophone Studies (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
International Development and Social Change
Women’s and Gender Studies
History
Screen Studies
Education
“Dans le monde où je m’achemine, je me crée interminablement.”
—
Frantz Fanon
Spoken worldwide, French remains important and influential in the 21st century; more so, French and Francophone culture. As a French and Francophone studies major, you will sharpen your linguistic skills, gain cultural competency, and be ready to pursue exciting opportunities around the globe.
While exploring the literature, film, and history of multiple French-speaking societies, you will be challenged by our expert faculty to interrogate language, identity, social status, geography, and power; in addition, you will develop vital skills in textual analysis and socio-cultural criticism. These skills will prepare you for rewarding careers in fields like education, health care, hospitality, and the arts.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study French and Francophone Studies at Clark?
Explore Rennes, Grenoble, or Dijon, France, or Dakar, Senegal, for an unforgettable semester (or more) through our immersive study abroad requirement.
Apply to teach English at the University of Versailles, France, for one year after graduation.
Engage with our teaching assistants from France during discussion sessions and social events, and gain individual help with writing assignments at our on-campus French Writing Center.
Conduct research using French-language sources and data with faculty through the departments of
language, literature, and culture
,
psychology
, or
international development, community, and environment
.
This is Clark
Our Stories
Immersing herself fully in French culture
French and Francophone studies major Dexel Sagoe-Moses described her time studying abroad in Rennes, France as one of her best experiences, because she was able to immerse herself fully in the culture she’d been studying for so long. On returning to Clark, she was surprised to discover that one of her favorite parts of French classes was making presentations — in French!
It was like a dream come true, living in France and gradually speaking French like a local. I felt like I had accomplished something; I realized that I’d made so much progress, and I was proud of myself.
—Dexel Sagoe-Moses
Class of 2017
French and Francophone Studies
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
FREN 124
PLS
Popular Culture in France
Discover French popular culture (slang, food, sports, humor, and more) through film, music, comics, and the media — all while practicing your French!
FREN 145
POP
French Translation Workshop
See what it’s like to be a professional translator! Explore the theory, techniques, and dilemmas of translating a variety of texts — from advertising and journalism to theatre and fiction — from French into English.
FREN 164
Haiti and the French Antilles
Explore literature about Haiti, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and French Guyana for insight into the rich histories and cultures of those Caribbean islands that are a mixture of French and African heritage.
FREN 210
Spirited Rebellion: Adolescence in French Novels and Film
Examine the gendered representation of adolescence as portrayed in French literature and film, and the different ways these two genres create a cultural understanding of the changing place of youth in society.
CMLT 130
The National Imagination
Explore the concept of a national community as created and critiqued through cultural texts like literature and film, and how a national language can promote a sense of cultural continuity and identity.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The French and Francophone Studies Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a French and Francophone studies major, you’ll focus on building the core skills of linguistic and cultural competencies. Eleven courses are required to complete the major, including one course in literary analysis, one course in culture criticism, an advanced topics/capstone seminar, and two courses in a Clark-approved study abroad program. Also required is The National Imagination, which explores and critiques how national languages have been used to build and promote cultural continuity and identity through texts, films, and documentaries.
After you declare a French and Francophone studies major, an adviser will work with you to discuss and approve related courses, as well as to help you identify areas of interest that may lead to an honors project. In the fall of your senior year, a capstone course will bring together all you’ve learned.
Our teaching assistants from France staff the French Writing Center and can provide you with one-on-one guidance on assignments.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Intellectual and Practical Skills — understand and interrogate texts, ideas, and arguments; engage in discussion and debate with classmates; hone your language skills on the level of argumentation and nuanced presentation
Personal and Social Responsibility — Question identity, power, history, and social relations across the French-speaking world, and how all of this relates to students and their own lives
Ability to Integrate Knowledge, Skills, and Capacities of Effective Practice — Write longer papers, read denser, theoretically challenging texts, and put your skills into practice through a study abroad experience
Academic Achievement Awards
J. Fannin King Award for Excellence in French
The J. Fannin King Award for Excellence in French is awarded to an outstanding senior majoring in French.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the French and Francophone studies honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses include:
“Et la santé? Une autre approche pour améliorer la position de la femme ivoirienne dans la société,” (or “And What About Health? Another Approach to Improving the Condition of Women in Ivorian Society”)
Confronting the Past? Silences in History and Memory of the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade in Senegal
The Ambiguity of Language in Voltaire’s Translation of Shakespeare
Related Programs
International Development and Social Change
Women’s and Gender Studies
History
Screen Studies
Education
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your French and francophone knowledge into practice.
The French and Francophone studies major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
At least two courses, taken as part of a Clark-approved study abroad experience in a French-speaking country, are required.
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a French and Francophone studies student:
French Club
Caribbean African Student Association
Clark University Film Society
Clark University Model United Nations
International Students Association
Internships
American Antiquarian Society
Worcester, Mass.
Ascentria Care Alliance
Worcester, Mass.
Refugee and Immigration Assistance Center (RIAC)
Worcester, Mass.
African Community Education (ACE)
Worcester, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research and creative work
.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. An example of a student project presented at Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day is:
Representation of Marginalized Youth in French Language Film: A Social Criticism
In addition, you can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by French and Francophone studies graduates from Clark include:
Institut des Sciences Politiques, Paris, France; M.A. in international relations
McGill University, Montréal, Canada; M.A. (bilingual program), faculty of law
Clark University; MAT (teaching)
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine at Tulane University, New Orleans, La.; MPH
University of Leeds (England): M.A. in Professional Language and Intercultural Studies
Career Outcomes
Education: elementary, secondary, ESL
teaching
Alliance Française (French library and cultural center), Boston, Mass.
education administrator
Towson University
international initiatives program coordinator
Harvard Medical School Center for Primary Care
project coordinator
African Radio Drama Association, Lagos, Nigeria
senior program officer
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Language, Literature, and Culture
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy