Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/geography

Skip to content
Major in Geography (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Geography (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Global Environmental Studies
International Development and Social Change
(concentration)
Urban Studies
Ethics and Public Policy
(concentration)
Latin American and Latino Studies
(concentration)
Without geography, you’re nowhere.
Why are things located where they are? What makes societies and biophysical environments different from place to place? How does distance affect access to the things all species need to survive and flourish?
As a geography major at Clark University, you will use the concepts of place and space to better understand the physical and social processes that shape our planet and to address societal and environmental challenges. In pursuing a bachelor of arts degree in geography, you will explore why places are different; the economic, political, and cultural systems that connect us locally, regionally, and globally; and how we shape — and in turn are shaped by — our environment.
Learn more about the curriculum for geography majors
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Geography at Clark?
Clark is an
internationally recognized leader
in geography. Over the years our professors have included Fellows from the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
For more than 90 years, our faculty and alumni have pioneered, and continue to advance, the diverse fields of human-environment geography, risk-hazards, critical geography, animal geographies, and feminist geography. Our program is the only one to have developed its own geographic information science (GIS) software,
IDRISI-TerrSet
, which is now used worldwide.
Learn from scholar-teachers whose research informs international debates on topics such as socio-economic development, landscape transformation, climate change, and urbanization. Our faculty partner with organizations including NASA, the National Science Foundation, Oxfam America, and the Wildlife Conservation Society.
Qualifying students can join our
accelerated B.A./M.S. program in GIScience
— with the fifth year tuition-free.
Our majors move on to top-ranked graduate programs and meaningful careers.
Geography
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
GEOG 157
PLS
Psychogeography and Cultural Spaces
Use the lens of psychogeography to investigate how human-modified landscapes affect our emotions and behaviors. Explore how those landscapes are shaped, and how they can be modified to bring about social change.
GEOG 106
POP
Water and the City: a Socio-Hydrology of Worcester and Its Environments
Water is an emotionally and politically charged resource. Explore our city’s water system via field trips and readings, and grapple with current issues in water and wastewater management, conservation, and planning.
GEOG 119
The Arctic in the Anthropocene
The Arctic’s rapid warming has far-reaching implications for our planet’s climate. Discover the Arctic during an age of intense human activity, and the interactions between land, atmosphere, ocean, ice, and people.
GEOG 107
POP
Miracles of Asia: Economic Growth in Global Contexts
Why are many Asian countries (think China, India, and Japan) major players in global affairs? Through readings and class discussions, you’ll explore the reasons behind their rapid economic rise and sudden crises.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Geography Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a geography major, you will take one course in each of four concentrations: earth system science; human-environment/nature-society; globalization, cities, and development; and geographic information science. You also will take a course in both research methods and skills, as well as four courses in an area you want to explore in depth, and a capstone experience. Additional information about the geography major and minor is available in the
Program Guide for Undergraduate Geography Students
(PDF)
.
If you qualify, you can apply to join
Gamma Theta Upsilon
, the international geography honor society. Each year, the Graduate School of Geography recognizes three seniors and one junior with paid awards: the Ellen Churchill Semple Award, the IDRISI GIS Excellence Award, the NCGE Excellence in Scholarship Award, and the Strabo Award.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Knowledge of how the natural world and human society are connected
Theoretical and practical skills to understand the processes of physical and social change
The ability to apply classroom learning to solve real-world problems
Academic Achievement Awards
Ellen Churchill Semple Award
The Ellen Churchill Semple Award is given to an outstanding graduating senior geography major. The award is based primarily on a student’s academic achievements, although consideration is also given to professional and community achievements, independent research activities, publications and consulting.
Clark Labs GIS Excellence Award
This award is given to a senior that has excelled in the field of GIS.
NCGE (National Council for Geographic Education) Excellence in Scholarship Award
The NCGE Excellence of Scholarship Award is given in recognition of outstanding scholastic performance in the field of geography. The National Council presents this award for Geographic Education and the Association of Geographers.
Strabo Award
The Strabo Award is given in recognition of intellectual leadership, exploration, and creativity. It is named for the Greek geographer Strabo, whose masterful work, Geography, charted the known world of his time.
The Marcia V. Szugda-Emani Memorial Environmental Scholarship Award
The Marcia V. Szugda-Emani Memorial Environmental Scholarship Award is given to a graduating senior with a record of high academic achievement. The award is designated for advanced research projects related to geography and the environment with a focus on the environment and its relevance to human well-being.
Facilities
Special facilities available to you include the
Jeanne X. Kasperson Research Library
at the
George Perkins Marsh Institute
, the
Guy H. Burnham Map and Aerial Photograph Library
,
Clark Labs for Cartographic Technologies and Geographic Analysis
, and earth system science teaching and research laboratories in polar science, forest ecology, and terrestrial ecosystem physiology.
Learn more
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the geography honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
The Detection of Change Points in Arctic Sea Ice Cover across Different Spatial Scales, Locations, and Seasons
Creating Social and Environmental Uplift: Examining the Feasibility and Effects of Rooftop Solar Panels for Environmental Justice Communities in Worcester, MA
Media Underreporting and Disasters: A GIS Analysis of Traditional and Social Media Response to the 2016 Louisiana Flooding Disaster
Characterizing the Spatial Expansion of the San Andres Mine between 1991 and 2016 in Copan, Honduras
From Green Revolution to Organic Revolution: The Development of Inequality in Thailand and Resistance in Surin Province
Honors Program Guide
Related Programs
Global Environmental Studies
International Development and Social Change
(concentration)
Urban Studies
Ethics and Public Policy
(concentration)
Latin American and Latino Studies
(concentration)
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
As a geography major, you can join the
Clark Undergraduate Geography Association
(CUGA), which also includes students following the
earth system science track
of the
environmental science major
. CUGA fosters a strong sense of community by organizing academic experiences, vocational workshops, social events and field trips.
The geography major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a geography student:
Amnesty International
Clark Sustainability Action
International Students Association
Internships
Preservation Worcester
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
NASA DEVELOP National Program
Conservation International
Greater Worcester Land Trust, Inc.
Regional Environmental Council of Central Massachusetts
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty have expertise in subfields including earth system science, nature-society, geographic information science, economic geography, political ecology, urban geography, animal geographies, and climate change and environmental sustainability, among others.
Summer fellowships are available for qualified students to participate in the Human-Environment Regional Observatory (
HERO
) program, an intensive summer and academic-year research effort focused on environmental change in New England.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Collaborate with Faculty and Present Your Research
Collaborate with faculty
Some students co-author papers with a faculty mentor and attend professional conferences, where they present their research and network with other geography professionals. Examples include (names of Clark undergrads are indicated by *):
Blanchard, Samuel*, Robert Gilmore Pontius Jr, and K. M. Urban. 2015. Implications of using 2m versus 30m spatial resolution data for suburban residential land change modeling.
Journal of Environmental Informatics
, 25(1): 1-13.
Palmer, Shannon*, Deborah Martin, Verna DeLauer, and John Rogan, 2014, “Vulnerability and Adaptive Capacity in the Asian Longhorned Beetle Infestation in Worcester, Massachusetts,”
Human Ecology
, 42(6): 965–977.
Rogan, John, Martha Ziemer*, Deborah Martin, Sam Ratick, Nicholas Cuba, and Verna DeLauer, 2013, “The impact of tree cover loss on land surface temperature: A case study of central Massachusetts using Landsat Thematic Mapper thermal data,”
Applied Geography
, 45: 49-57
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects geography students and recent alumni have presented are:
Interannual Sea Ice Variability in Cape Bathurst and Saint Lawrence Island Polynyas: Effects on Regional Primary Productivity
Measuring Post-Disturbance Regeneration of Forests in Northwest Colorado
Cultivating Urban Youth: Professional Development Through Farming
Bursting the Clark Bubble: Improving Student Knowledge and Usage of Public Transportation Options in Worcester
A Socioeconomic Profile of Recreation Users of the California Northern Central Coast Region, Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary and the northern portion of Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate schools attended by geography graduates from Clark include:
Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo, Calif.; Master’s of city and regional planning
University of Colorado Boulder; Ph.D. in geography
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; Ph.D. in ecology and genetics/limnology
University of Utah; Ph.D. in geography
University of Texas, Austin; M.Arch. (professional architecture)
University of Calgary, Canada; M.Sc. in geographical information science
Clark University; M.A. in community development and planning
Career Outcomes
Central Massachusetts Regional Planning Commission
transportation planning assistant
The Johnson Company
Staff Scientist/GIS Specialist
U.S. Geological Survey
geographer
E. & J. Gallo Winery
viticulture GIS analyst
Bureau of Land Management
recreation technician
Apple Inc.
GIS technician
Explore what this department has to offer
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy