Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/major-in-health-science-and-society-b-a

Skip to content
Major in Health, Science, and Society (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Health, Science, and Society (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Geography
Global Environmental Studies
Economics
Women’s and Gender Studies
Health, Science, and Society
Health is a human right
When we think about health, we often imagine doctors, nurses, clinics, and medical interventions. But what actually makes a person, community, or society healthy? Who is healthy and who is not? Why? We know the conditions we need to flourish, but how do we create healthy communities—with safe housing, healthy and nutritious foods, and access to green spaces? From crosswalks to controlling toxic chemicals, every decision we make has the potential to shape human health. The world needs health professionals—from doctors to community activists to policy experts—who collaborate on coordinated, equity-oriented actions to build healthy communities.
As a student in Clark’s health, science, and society major, you’ll reimagine the way you think about health. You’ll see how the biomedical sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities each offer important lenses through which to tackle complex health challenges and promote health equity. You will work with faculty from more than five departments who are engaged in a range of domestic and international research activities. You will gain a broad and holistic foundation in health sciences, and many ideas about how to pursue to launch yourself for a variety of careers in health.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why study health, science and society at Clark?
Make a difference in the well-being of others: Clark is a leader in the creation of innovative, interdisciplinary programs that prepare students to become leaders and drivers of societal change.
Gain practical experience working collaboratively with communities in Worcester, Ethiopia, Puerto Rico, and beyond. You’ll be part of a close community of scholars and practitioners dedicated to fostering health equity and well-being in communities around the world.
Your classes will draw from a diverse range of disciplines that will provide you with a rich, complex understanding of health and prepare you for a wide range of domestic and international careers.
Health, science, and society
Featured Courses
1
ID108
What is Public Health?
Students will be introduced to the field of public health as a mode of inquiry that focuses on population health and as a government institution that is designed to protect the public’s wellbeing.
SSJ308
Health (in)equity: social determinants and policy solutions
Students will examine links between social, economic, political, and environmental factors that affect health; the use of indicators; the main methods of assessing social determinants; and how diseases are patterned
SSJ30282
Community Based Health Research
Students gain an overview of community health by conducting “hands on” research in the field, integrating theories and methods from medical anthropology, community and population public health, and medicine.
View All Courses
The health, science, and society path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
You’ll take foundational courses to learn many approaches to health. In methods courses, you’ll learn to ask and answer questions to understand health challenges and find solutions to those problems. You’ll deepen your understanding of health challenges and promising solutions by completing three elective courses.
The major includes a practicum or internship where you can work in a clinical, laboratory or community health setting in Worcester, elsewhere in the US, or during study abroad. During your senior year, you’ll synthesize and present the knowledge you’ve gained through a capstone project or Honors Studio.
Skills and knowledge
Skills you will learn include:
Build a foundation in key disciplines that provide understandings of health.
Develop an understanding of quantitative and qualitative approaches to studying health, measuring health patterns across populations, and understanding how social and cultural factors shape illness experiences.
Gain practical experience deepening and applying these skills through a required internship or research project working in a clinical, laboratory or community health setting in Worcester, elsewhere in the US, or on study abroad.
Deepen your understanding of community and global health, health psychology, public health, the sociology of health and medicine, and STEM approaches to health.
Present your capstone experiences or research.
Develop materials to launch your career.
Related Programs
Biology
Chemistry
Comparative Race and Ethnic Studies
Environmental Science
Geography
International Development and Social Change
Psychology
Women’s and Gender Studies
Urban Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Health, science, and society majors learn about the research and field experience of faculty and their undergraduate and graduate student peers through workshops, panels, and informal gatherings. Students build on and expand their knowledge with hands-on experience through an internship or applied research.
Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your health knowledge into practice. Many students become actively engaged in political and social groups on campus, in Worcester and beyond.
Clark international development and social change majors are part of a close community of scholars and practitioners dedicated to fostering social justice and economic well-being in the developing and developed world.
You can:
Join fieldwork led by faculty on the forefront of social change
Get involved with projects within Clark’s
Mosakowski Institute for Public Enterprise
and
George Perkins Marsh Institute
Gain professional experience at a community health agency in Worcester.
Conduct research in a biomedical laboratory or at a biotechnology start-up
Travel abroad while studying public or global health through one of our Global Learning Collaboratives
Many students take advantage of domestic and international
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a study abroad and away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
study abroad and away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Clark offers a series of study abroad and study away opportunities relevant to health, science, and society majors in Vietnam, Namibia, Dominican Republic, South Africa, Bangladesh, Puerto Rico, and Mexico.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a health, science, and society major:
Choices
Clark Environmental Action
Clark University Brothers and Sisters
Clark University Rapid Response
Food Insecurity Resistance Movement (FIRM)
Menstrual Equity Alliance
Pre-Dental Society
Pre-Health Society and Alpha Epsilon Delta
Pro-Choice at Clark
Women in STEM
Youth Outreach Worcester
Internships
Growing Places
Leominster, Mass.
Girls, Inc.
Worcester, Mass.
Kitendo Children’s Charity
Kenya
Save the Children
Nicaragua
Ivy’s Place
Ethiopia
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty members have doctoral degrees in anthropology, education, political science, sociology, and economics. Working closely with them, you will acquire a broad analytic background in the social sciences. Their significant areas of research are:
Nongovernmental organizations in development and humanitarian assistance
Land, food, and agriculture
Development and globalization
Global and community health
Forced migration and mobile populations
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects international development and social change students and recent alumni have presented are:
In the Name of Land, Community and Life
Cultivating Urban Youth: Professional Development through Farming
Rural Energy Crisis, Poverty and Conflict in Rural Haiti
Understanding Post-Apartheid Dynamics in an Integrated South African Village
Safe Routes to School Program in the City of Worcester
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by graduates from Clark include:
Brown University; master’s in urban education policy
Columbia University Teachers College; master’s in international and comparative education
The New School; master’s in nonprofit management
University of Edinburgh, Scotland; master’s in public health
Our students have also been awarded prestigious fellowships after graduation, including the Compton Mentor and Fulbright fellowships.
Career Outcomes
Development Alternatives, Inc.
Geographic information systems/development specialist
Handicap International France
Project manager
Abt Associates, Cambridge, Mass.
Associate analyst
Jeremiah’s Inn, Worcester, Mass.
Communications Coordinator
Balkan Trust for Democracy
Serbia project coordinator
Explore the Department of Sustainability and Social Justice
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy