Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/international-development-and-social-change

Skip to content
Major in International Development and Social Change (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in International Development and Social Change (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Geography
Global Environmental Studies
Economics
Women’s and Gender Studies
Health, Science, and Society
Analyze. Act. Achieve.
According to the International Monetary Fund, approximately 70 percent of all nations are “developing” — characterized by economic vulnerability and high levels of poverty. At Clark, international development and social change (IDSC) majors learn how to bring about positive change by thinking critically, acting collaboratively, and engaging responsibly.
Research and activism are hallmarks of the IDSC experience at Clark, from promoting sustainable development through local action to devising technological solutions to food shortages in developing nations. Our graduates — who have gone on to work for organizations including The World Bank, UNICEF, Care USA, Partners in Health, and the National Democratic Institute — work to create a better world every day.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study International Development and Social Change at Clark?
If you want to make a difference in today’s fractious world, you can start by pursuing a degree in international development and social change at Clark, a longtime leader in the field, with thousands of alumni working for positive change across the world.
You will be active in the world; recent examples of student projects include working with an environmental activist organization in northeast Thailand, developing a social entrepreneur project in Colombia, and researching habitat encroachment in Myanmar.
Enjoy the benefits of being part of our renowned
program
, which is built on more than 35 years of collective field experience in North America, Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
International Development and Social Change
Featured Courses
1
ID 120
PLS
Introduction to Socio-Cultural Anthropology
Use anthropological observation and problem-solving to gain insight into other cultures — and your own; and explore the practicality of applying anthropological knowledge to further the cause of a more just world.
ID 235
Trafficking: Globalization and Its Illicit Commodities
Illegal trafficking — people, animals, and controlled substances — continues to thrive around the globe. Explore the opportunities and dilemmas faced by those who study and try to eliminate these shadow economies.
GEOG 107
PLS
Miracles of Asia: Economic Growth in Global Contexts
Why are many Asian countries (think China, India, and Japan) major players in global affairs? Through readings and class discussions, you’ll explore the reasons behind their rapid economic rise and sudden crises.
View All Courses
The International Development and Social Change Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
In the classroom, IDSC majors develop critical analytical skills, explore links between local and global perspectives, and focus on the human and ecological dimensions of sustainability.
The major requires the completion of at least 12 courses. You’ll take five core courses and four in a subfield of international development and social change that interests you. You’ll also complete one methods course, two skills courses, one internship or directed research project, and a capstone seminar.
We encourage you to take courses across programs representing diverse perspectives, including undergraduate classes offered through Clark’s
Graduate School of Geography
and
School of Management
. This provides opportunities for you to gain the skills you need to work across the nonprofit, private, government, nongovernmental organization, and research sectors.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Read and interpret quantitative and qualitative data
Think critically about social, political, cultural, and economic dynamics and relationships
Work in teams to apply theory to real-world problems affecting vulnerable groups in Worcester and abroad
Address challenges on every level, from a village to the global policy arena
Problem-solve, evaluate, implement, monitor and communicate in a logical, organized way
Evaluate your own position and intentions to facilitate social change
Academic Achievement Awards
Academic Achievement Award
The Academic Achievement Award is to an outstanding graduating senior in the IDSC honors program. Criteria for the award include overall GPA, GPA within the major, and quality of the IDSC honors thesis.
Impact Award
The Impact Award is given to a graduating senior in the international development major who has shown personal integrity and has demonstrated leadership and/or collaboration in community service and progressive change.
Theodore Von Laue Undergraduate Prize in International Development
The Theodore Von Laue Undergraduate Prize in International Development was established by Mrs. Theodore (Angela) Von Laue. The award goes to a junior majoring in international development, who has demonstrated accomplishment and commitment to the search for peace, equitable distribution of resources, human well-being, and environmental justice.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the international development and social change honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
Immigrant Rights in the Climate of Economic Crisis: An Ethnographic Study on Native Public Opinion in Seville, Spain
Sex Work and Storytelling: Toward a Feminist Epistemology in Social Science Research
Access to and Utilization of Primary Healthcare Services by the African and Latino Immigrant Communities in Worcester, Massachusetts
Related Programs
Geography
Global Environmental Studies
Economics
Women’s and Gender Studies
Health, Science, and Society
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your international development and social change knowledge into practice. Many students become actively engaged in political and social groups on campus, in Worcester and beyond.
Clark international development and social change majors are part of a close community of scholars and practitioners dedicated to fostering social justice and economic well-being in the developing and developed world.
You can:
Join fieldwork led by faculty on the forefront of social change
Get involved with projects within Clark’s
Mosakowski Institute for Public Enterprise
and
George Perkins Marsh Institute
Connect with the Community Development Training Institute, an alumni-run, nonprofit community development consulting firm
Travel abroad while studying sustainable development through collaborations such as the
Haiti Relief Initiative
Many students take advantage of domestic and international
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Many students also get involved with
Campus Sustainability
efforts. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as an international development and social change major:
Clark University Brothers and Sisters
Amnesty International
Youth Outreach Worcester
Food Truth
ONE Campus Challenge
Internships
Growing Places
Leominster, Mass.
Girls, Inc.
Worcester, Mass.
Kitendo Children’s Charity
Kenya
Save the Children
Nicaragua
Ivy’s Place
Ethiopia
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty members have doctoral degrees in anthropology, education, political science, sociology, and economics. Working closely with them, you will acquire a broad analytic background in the social sciences. Their significant areas of research are:
Nongovernmental organizations in development and humanitarian assistance
Land, food, and agriculture
Development and globalization
Global and community health
Forced migration and mobile populations
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Collaborate with Faculty and Present Your Research
Collaborate with faculty
Professor Cynthia Caron and student Shelby Margolin: “Rescuing Girls, Investing in Girls: A Critique of Development Fantasies.”
Journal of International Development
27: 881-897.
Professor Anita Fábos with a cohort of IDSC undergraduate and graduate students created the Refugee Community Oral History Project, which preserves the histories of refugees from Bhutan who have resettled in Worcester.
Professor Marianne Sarkis has invited more than 100 students to work with her on a project commissioned by the Worcester Division of Public Health and the City Task Force on Prostitution. To better understand services provided to victims and survivors of the commercial sex industry in Worcester, they engage in primary data collection, GIS mapping, and oral history interviews with survivors. In 2015, this collaborative work received national attention and led to a policy change in the Worcester Police Department.
Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects international development and social change students and recent alumni have presented are:
In the Name of Land, Community and Life
Cultivating Urban Youth: Professional Development through Farming
Rural Energy Crisis, Poverty and Conflict in Rural Haiti
Understanding Post-Apartheid Dynamics in an Integrated South African Village
Safe Routes to School Program in the City of Worcester
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by international development and social change graduates from Clark include:
Brown University; master’s in urban education policy
Columbia University Teachers College; master’s in international and comparative education
The New School; master’s in nonprofit management
University of Edinburgh, Scotland; master’s in public health
Our students have also been awarded prestigious fellowships after graduation, including the Compton Mentor and Fulbright fellowships.
Career Outcomes
Development Alternatives, Inc.
Geographic information systems/development specialist
Handicap International France
Project manager
Abt Associates, Cambridge, Mass.
Associate analyst
Jeremiah’s Inn, Worcester, Mass.
Communications Coordinator
Balkan Trust for Democracy
Serbia project coordinator
Explore the Department of Sustainability and Social Justice
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy