Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/concentration/latin-american-and-latinx-studies

Skip to content
Concentration in Latin American and Latinx Studies
Home
Academics
Concentration in Latin American and Latinx Studies
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Why Choose Latin American and Latinx Studies?
Explore la cultura influeyente
Latinx people make up an estimated one-sixth of the U.S. population, and the cultural, economic, and geopolitical impact of Latin America and Latinx people is substantial. The increasing number of people who speak both Spanish and English in the U.S. is accompanied by the rising popularity of Latin music, art, cinema, and food. In addition, issues such as immigration, left- vs. right-wing governments, narcocultures, perennial problems of inequality, and the rise of Brazil as a global economic power make the study of Latin America and Latinx people in the U.S. interesting and important.
As a student in the Latin American and Latinx studies concentration
, you’ll dissect these complex issues and trends through courses that address the diversity of historical, cultural, and political experiences of Latin America, the interrelationships between Latin America and the U.S., and the growing influence of Latinx people in the U.S.
Latin American and Latinx studies is one of seven undergraduate programs affiliated with Clark’s
Center for Gender, Race and Area Studies
, a community of faculty and students who study diverse, disadvantaged, or marginalized societies and populations, with an emphasis on promoting social justice.
While you can combine this concentration with any major, it’s an especially good complement to majors in community, youth, and education studies; geography; global environmental studies; history; international development and social change; political science; screen studies; and Spanish.
Minimum number of courses to complete this concentration: 6
Requirements and Courses
Hands-On Learning
As a complement to this concentration, you can engage in a variety of related experiential learning opportunities, including internships, study abroad, and research.
Careers
A foundation in Latin American and Latinx studies is an asset to those seeking careers in fields such as psychology, social services, education, management, law, and teaching.
Program Director
Professor Paul Posner
Phone: 1-508-793-7253
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy