Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/management

Skip to content
Major in Management (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Management (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Economics
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Marketing
Psychology
Accelerated B.A./Master’s Programs
Clark’s fifth-year Accelerated Degree Programs offer scholarships ranging from 50 to 100 percent. Management majors might be interested in:
Accounting
Business Administration
Business Analytics
Finance
Information Technology
Management
Marketing
How Accelerated Degree Programs and Scholarships Work
Why Major in Management?
At Clark University, we don’t graduate future managers; we graduate future leaders. As you pursue a B.A. in management, you’ll go beyond the nuts and bolts of income, revenue, forecasts, and profit margins, becoming immersed in the legal, ethical, social, and environmental dimensions of the business world. To gain additional knowledge and skills, consider adding a track in Data Analytics.
Through classroom projects, internship opportunities, and participation in on-campus organizations like the Entrepreneurship Club, Investments and Trading Society, and Net Impact, you will get the chance to develop and exercise strong leadership skills. In short, a bachelor of arts degree in management from Clark will give you all the tools you need to succeed in any business setting.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Management at Clark?
Join a community of students and scholars in Clark’s
School of Management
, which has been named by
Princeton Review
as one of the best business schools in America; ranked 16th on
Forbes’
list of
America’s Most Entrepreneurial Universities
; and is among the fewer than five percent of the world’s business schools to receive
AACSB accreditation
.
Benefit from our strong commitment to the Principles for Responsible Management Education (
PRME
), which integrates sustainability and social responsibility into our research and teaching.
Learn from distinguished faculty who have extensive management experience, including serving as marketing consultants to brands like Gillette, L.L. Bean, and Godiva; as social entrepreneurs; and as advocates for sustainable business practices with foreign businesses.
Connect classroom learning with community businesses and organizations through hands-on projects that let you make a real impact on important initiatives.
Management
Featured Courses
MGMT 100
PLS
The Art and Science of Management
Learn basic management skills, and where and when to apply them. You’ll also learn about social responsibility and business ethics, and apply this knowledge through a community-based learning project.
MGMT210
POP
Management and Behavioral Principles
Topics include individual processes, interpersonal relations, cross-cultural dynamics, team structure and processes, organizational structure and design, and organizational influences on behavior.
MGMT223
POP
Sports Management
Learn about different sports organizations including e-sports, the applicable stakeholders, and will apply key concepts of sports management with an emphasis on management, strategy, marketing, and finance.
BLAW 262
POP
Business Ethics and Law
Learn how business, law, ethics, and personal values contribute to the decision-making process as you study statutory and case law related to current topics.
View All Courses
The Management Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
Studying business management in the liberal arts tradition at Clark is especially useful because management is increasingly being seen as more than just as a set of “hard” skills. In our classes, you’ll learn the nuances and “soft” skills that make management an art, rather than a science. Courses also stress putting theoretical knowledge into current practice; you will complete in-depth case studies and group projects based on real business challenges, and solve real-time problems for actual companies. All of your classes are taught by faculty members who are dedicated to responsible financial business practices on a global scale.
Fifteen courses are required for the major: one in economics, 12 in management, and an additional two management courses of your choice.
Qualified students can join the Clark chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma, the national management honor society.
Academic Achievement Awards
William ’53 and Agnes Hausrath Leadership Award
The William ’53 and Agnes Hausrath Leadership Award recognizes the leadership accomplishments of our talented and accomplished undergraduate students. The Hausrath Leadership Award is given to a current undergraduate Management Major student who has demonstrated exemplary leadership qualities during his/her time at Clark.
Morton H. ’51 and Vivian B. Sigel Award for Outstanding Undergraduate Management Major
The award to Clark’s top undergraduate management student is named in the Sigels’ honor, and their generous financial support created the Sigel MBA Fellowship.
Morton H. ’51 and Vivian B. Sigel Endowed Fellowship Award
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Understand the cultural, economic, environmental, and political factors shaping management today
Develop innovative solutions to complex management challenges
Solve real-world problems in a global context
Leverage crucial communication and managerial skills
Related Programs
Economics
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Marketing
Psychology
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your management knowledge into practice.
The management major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Management students can participate in
internships
during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a management student:
Entrepreneurship Club
Investments and Trading Society
Net Impact
Clark Sustainability Action
Women in Business
Internships
Constant Contact
data analyst intern
J. Jill
strategic planning intern
National Basketball Association (NBA)
talent acquisition operations
National Grid
marketing intern
Unum
account manager
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty areas of focus include:
Alternative investments
Consumer choices around sustainable consumption
Workplace diversity
Employee rights and well-being
Corporate environmental sustainability practices
Read examples of
School of Management research
.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects management students and recent alumni have presented are:
Efforts-to-Outcome: A Constant Process for Improvement
Universal Banking: An Assessment of Combining Services
Application of Australian Business Plan to the American Market
Management of College Campus HIV & STI Screening: Process and Recommendations
Sustainability Through Higher Education: U.S. Best Practices and Recommendations for Bulgaria
In addition, you can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by management graduates from Clark include:
Carnegie Mellon University; MBA
College of William & Mary; master’s in Accounting
Columbia University; M.A. in higher education
American University Law School; J.D.
Emory University; MBA
Career Outcomes
Salesforce
content marketer
Beanfields PBC
CFO/COO
Target Corporation
senior in-store marketing planner
L.L. Bean
marketing analyst
Converse
inventory planner
State Street
compliance officer
Bain & Company
staffing manager assistant
Booz Allen Hamilton
management consultant
Explore what the School of Management has to offer.
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy