Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/major-in-marketing

Skip to content
Major in Marketing (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Marketing (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Management
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Media, Culture, and the Arts
Psychology
Accelerated B.A./Master’s Programs
Clark’s fifth-year Accelerated Degree Programs offer scholarships ranging from 50 to 100 percent. Marketing majors might be interested in:
Business Administration
Business Analytics
Information Technology
Management
Marketing
How Accelerated Degree Programs and Scholarships Work
Where data meets creativity
Every business or organization, whether it’s a local food pantry or a Fortune 500 company, needs to identify a customer base and keep that base informed about the goods and services it provides. Enter marketers, who apply their research, communication, and storytelling skills by connecting buyers, sellers, providers, and clients via multiple media channels.
Marketing professionals bring their expertise to a wide range of organizational functions, from website and social media presence and online reputation management to market research that informs strategic decisions about programs, policies, and products. Marketers must use their skills to recruit not only customers, clients, students, and patients, but also new employees, donors, and volunteers. They must be effective team members and leaders, adept at managing ideas, people, and resources. As a marketing major pursuing a B.A. from Clark, you’ll gain the skills and knowledge needed to prepare yourself for work in all these areas.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Marketing at Clark?
Join a community of students and scholars in Clark’s
School of Management
, which has been named by Princeton Review as one of the best business schools in America and is among the fewer than 5 percent of the world’s business schools to receive
AACSB accreditation
.
Gain a solid foundation in “hard” and “soft” business skills, from accounting and finance to organizational behavior and communications.
Learn from distinguished faculty who have extensive experience, including serving as marketing consultants to brands like Gillette, L.L. Bean, and Godiva; as social entrepreneurs; and as advocates for sustainable business practices.
Connect classroom learning with community businesses and organizations through hands-on projects that let you make a real impact on important initiatives.
Master skills related to advertising, communications, consumer behavior, public relations, and marketing strategy and research — proficiencies useful in any field or career.
Marketing
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
5
MKT 230
Marketing Management
Learn key concepts and principles while you analyze real marketing issues. Become a better consumer and master topics including research and information systems, consumer behavior, and nonprofit marketing.
MKT 231
POP
Marketing Research
Course topics include research design, data collection procedures, sampling, and data analysis. You will focus on marketing research as it relates to market segmentation, demand assessment, and new product design.
MKT 237
Branding Concepts and Principles
Brand management is critical for both large and small organizations. This course introduces the key concepts and principles of branding as a critical part of the new business landscape.
MKT 238
Digital Marketing
A macro overview of digital marketing from display and search to affiliate and mobile, you’ll learn practical, real-world techniques and experiences to complete a series of group exercises and presentations.
MGMT 234
Consumer Behavior
Learn how to create consumer demand for products and services and define consumers’ choices for particular brands. As part of a project team, you’ll identify ways to position brands for target consumer segments.
ENT 211
Creating a Movement
To successfully implement change through entrepreneurship or social innovation that supports you toward a common goal. This problem-based course, you’ll explore decision-making processes and develop real solutions.
ENT 212
Marketing to You
Through guest lectures, spirited discussions, and presentations, familiarize yourself with the ever-changing field of marketing to young consumers (middle to grad school), who influence 25% of all U.S. purchases.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Marketing Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a marketing major, you’ll become well-versed in advertising, communications, consumer behavior, public relations, and marketing strategy and research — skills useful in any field or career. You’ll be introduced to the principles and practices of marketing and communications, and have an opportunity to explore branding, product management, buyer behavior, and market research in advanced elective coursework.
You’ll master related knowledge and skills, with the opportunity to become an imaginative and creative marketing expert or researcher in the industry, nonprofit, or public sector. Through hands-on projects that require strong, professional writing and dynamic presentations, you’ll build skills that are coveted by organizations around the world.
Like all undergraduate programs in the School of Management, the marketing major includes a core of seven business courses that expose you to all functional areas of business, including accounting, economics, management communications, information systems, and more, while you also learn the critical thinking and communication skills that are essential in a liberal arts environment and vital to the success of today’s marketing professionals.
The marketing major requires 12 units of courses, including seven core business courses, three required marketing courses, one elective marketing course, and a capstone course, three marketing required courses, and one elective marketing course.
Academic Achievement Awards
Qualified students can join the Clark chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma, the international business honor society. Since 1913, Beta Gamma Sigma has recognized and honored top performing students from around the world in AACSB-accredited business schools.
Skills You Learn
All undergraduates in the School of Management develop a toolkit of essential skills crucial to any field of study or career: effective written and oral communication, an understanding of team dynamics, knowledge of business ethics, and solid critical thinking.
In addition, the marketing major will teach you to:
Evaluate major approaches to digital marketing, including search engine optimization, search and display ads, mobile marketing, social media, and online listening/monitoring,
Gauge marketing campaign effectiveness using key performance indicators and other qualitative and quantitative techniques
Understand how marketing concepts and tools can help any organization be more successful
Analyze marketing problems and develop innovative solutions to complex management challenges
Develop marketing and brand management strategies to position companies and products for target consumer segments
Leverage crucial communication and managerial skills
Related Programs
Management
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
(minor)
Media, Culture, and the Arts
Psychology
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about internship opportunities that complement your coursework and put your marketing knowledge into practice.
The marketing major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Marketing students can participate in internships during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Study Abroad programs of particular interest to marketing majors include:
CAPA programs in
London
,
Dublin
, and
Sydney
The
Umbra Institute
in Perugia, Italy
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a marketing student:
Clark University DECA
Entrepreneurship Club
Net Impact
Women in Business
American Marketing Association
Clark Center for Technology, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Faculty areas of focus include:
Organizational and social change
Behavioral pricing
Sensory marketing
Marketing research and strategy
Corporate environmental sustainability practices
Read examples of
School of Management research
.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some marketing-related projects students and recent alumni have presented are:
Marketing Green: The Selling of Sustainability
Branding through Metaphors: Customers’ Unconscious Decisions Create a New Era of Market Strategy
Assisting with the Rebranding of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Mass and Metrowest
Marketing and Communications internship with PeacePlayers International
In addition, you can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Carnegie Mellon University
College of William & Mary
Columbia University
American University Law School
Emory University
Career Outcomes
Acertitude
Marketing Coordinator
Nexamp
Subscriber Email Marketing Associate
Oracle
Customer Marketing Specialist
Henkel
Assistant Brand Manager
Atomic Hype
Brand Manager
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy