Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/mathematics

Skip to content
Major in Mathematics (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Mathematics (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Computer Science
Physics
Economics
Computational Science
Mathematical Biology and Bioinformatics
Learn the language of the universe.
Understanding mathematics provides you with a deep understanding of the world around us — and how to improve it. As a math major at Clark, you can contribute to mathematical knowledge for its own sake (“pure” mathematics), or apply your knowledge of math to solve problems in fields such as chemistry, physics, engineering, economics, and computer science.
With a math mindset and a math skill set, you can collaborate with experts in other disciplines. Increase fuel efficiency. Predict weather patterns. Analyze world economies. Whether you focus on pure or applied mathematics, you will graduate with indispensable skills that lead to careers in fields as diverse as software engineering, finance, actuarial science, and teaching.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Mathematics at Clark?
Benefit from a supportive community that is collaborative, not competitive, where you can grow your skills and knowledge with the help of faculty and peer mentors who want you to succeed; you can give back by becoming a peer learning assistant yourself.
Participate in research from your first day at Clark by joining our
Diving into Research Group
. All math majors are encouraged to undertake independent research under the supervision of a faculty member.
Challenge yourself at regional and national competitions (individually or as part of the Clark Math Team), including the prestigious
Putnam Mathematics Competition
.
Mathematics
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
MATH 110
PLS
Diving into Research: The Mathematics Behind Gene Regulation
In this yearlong course, explore the interface between mathematics, computer science, and molecular biology by designing simple experiments and deriving equations to model gene expression in a developing organism.
MATH 219
Linear Models
Research often relies on linear regression to predict the relationship between one or more variables and a response. Use real-world examples to explore and model applications of this statistical technique.
MATH 230
Differential Geometry
Describe spaces like surfaces, curves, and manifolds using this branch of mathematics that draws on advanced techniques in calculus and algebra, and has applications in physics, architecture, and economics.
MATH 220
Introduction to Stochastic Modeling
Stochastic processes use randomness to model dynamics of events in fields like the physical and social sciences, finance and business. Study their properties mathematically and by implementing them in code.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Mathematics Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
A total of 10 courses, as well as two semesters of Honors Calculus, are needed to complete the mathematics major. Our
course flowchart
, combined with one-on-one faculty advising, will help you plot a path through the major based on your beginning level of preparation and interests. Areas of focus are pure mathematics; applied mathematics, including mathematical biology and statistics; actuarial science; and teacher preparation.
If you’re considering a career teaching mathematics at the high school level, we encourage you to check out the
Noyce Scholarship program
.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
How mathematics can be applied to nearly every aspect of modern life
How to think at multiple levels of detail and abstraction, and apply that to construct and analyze systems
How to work as part of a team to solve problems
Academic Achievement Awards
Outstanding Achievement in Mathematics Award
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the mathematics honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
Visual Application of Group Theory
Axiomatic Origami
The Root System F
4
and its A
2
Subsystems
Related Programs
Computer Science
Physics
Economics
Computational Science
Mathematical Biology and Bioinformatics
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your mathematics knowledge into practice.
The mathematics major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Some students enjoy entering mathematics competitions (including the prestigious
Putnam Mathematics Competition
) individually or as part of the Clark team. You can join with other interested math students, in company with a faculty adviser, to prepare for competitions, the Graduate Record Examinations (GREs), or actuarial science examinations. Advanced students often serve as peer learning assistants. You also might provide math tutoring to students in the local public schools.
Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus experience. Clark approves semester, year-long, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
website where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams as a way to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a mathematics student:
Clark University Players Society
Outing Club
Science-Fiction People of Clark
Jazz Workshop
Clark University Brothers and Sisters
Internships
Morgan Stanley
New York, N.Y.
CIT Group
New York, N.Y.
Bridgewater Associates
Westport, Conn.
Demandware, Inc.
Burlington, Mass.
Noyce Scholarship Program Summer Internship (teaching)
Worcester, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our mathematics professors have research interests in these mathematics subfields: differential geometry, algebraic geometry, applied mathematics and differential equations, numerical analysis, scientific computing, mathematical biology, bioinformatics, probability and statistics, and the history of mathematics, among others.
You are encouraged to engage in research under the supervision of a faculty member. This ranges from joining a small group of students in the course
Diving into Research
to your own original research project on a topic that interests you. You might also take advantage of the National Science Foundation’s
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Some students attend professional conferences with a faculty mentor, where they present their research and network with other students and professionals in the field.
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects mathematics students and recent alumni have presented are:
Differential Geometry and Brain Images
An Evolved Evolutionary Algorithm
An Analog of a Platonic Solid in 4 Dimensions and Its Symmetry Group
Electromagnetic Wave Transmission Through Dense Plasma
Applications of Spectral Clustering to Genetics
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
The mathematics major prepares you for graduate school as well as a wide range of careers in industry, finance, insurance, and public-school teaching.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by mathematics graduates from Clark include:
University of Southern California; M.A. in neuroimaging and informatics
Northwestern University; Ph.D. in industrial engineering
University of California at Berkeley; Ph.D. in statistics
Stony Brook University; Ph.D. in mathematics
Boston University; M.S. in mathematical finance
Career Outcomes
PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers)
Actuarial associate
Frenova Renal Research
Custom reporting administrator analyst
CIT Group Inc.
Quantitative developer
MITRE Corporation
Emerging technologies computer scientist
HiQ Labs
Data scientist
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Mathematics
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy