Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/philosophy

Skip to content
Major in Philosophy (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Philosophy (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
History
Ancient Civilization
Jewish Studies
Law and Society
Ethics and Public Policy
Deeper questions. Sharper skills.
Searching for truth behind the noise, the reality behind the fog? Then philosophy at Clark is right for you. The philosophy major at Clark explores the fundamental questions of life, knowledge, and right and wrong. Think beyond the easy assumptions and hidden biases. Reveal truth. Investigate and logically evaluate arguments, and understand the basis for morality.
As our experienced faculty guide your learning, you’ll develop superior writing and speaking skills while you engage in deep, conceptual analysis — whether by investigating the morality of art, debating environmental ethics, or examining the relationship between science and theology. We invite you to join our thinking community in our pursuit of knowledge and truth.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Philosophy at Clark?
At Clark, you’ll be taught, advised, and mentored by philosophers with international reputations in fields ranging from Ancient Greek philosophy to biomedical ethics.
You’ll join a community of philosophy majors headed for careers in law, medicine, environmental policy, innovation, public health, finance, and research — many of whom are double-majoring in fields as diverse as physics, theatre arts, biology, psychology, mathematics, and political science.
Share a dedicated intellectual home — Beck House — with fellow philosophy students and faculty members.
Philosophy
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
PHIL 106
PLS
Science, Religion and Reality
Science and religion offer two different ways of understanding reality. While assessing these approaches, you’ll develop your ability to read complex texts, write logically, think analytically, and argue cogently.
PHIL 070
PLS
The Educated Robot: Artificial Intelligence and Epistemic Values
Attempts to create a mechanistic version of the human mind raise a multitude of questions. Reflect on the nature of mind, scientific models of thinking, and knowledge-based values like wisdom and understanding.
PHIL 133
POP
Reason and Political Disagreement
Can reason change someone’s mind in an emotionally charged political debate? Examine a real-world debate and engage with its participants and stakeholders to see if rational arguments can heal these divides.
PHIL 250
Plato
Immerse yourself in the mind of one of the most brilliant philosophers of all time. Student of Socrates and teacher of Aristotle, Plato helped shape Athens’ Golden Age, and his works remain highly relevant today.
PHIL 112
Art and Morality
Artistic expression has long been linked with controversy. In this course, you’ll draw on examples from the arts, the media, and the political realm to examine the role of morality in the creative process.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Philosophy Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
At Clark, your first course in philosophy is likely to be a First-Year Intensive (FYI) seminar or a course in ethics, such as Personal Values, Social and Political Ethics, or Environmental Ethics. Your last course will be a dedicated capstone seminar, reserved for graduating senior philosophy majors, devoted to collaborative, individual research projects around a central theme.
In between, you’ll take two courses in the history of philosophy, one in formal logic, one in epistemology, one in metaphysics, one in ethics and social philosophy, and advanced electives on single philosophers, movements, or topics. Few of your classes will have more than 24 students, and many will be limited to 12.
You’ll also be required to complete either a second major, a minor, or a concentration.
Qualified students can join the Clark chapter of Phi Sigma Tau, the national philosophy honor society.
Academic Achievement Awards
Excellence in Philosophical Studies
This award is presented to two philosophy majors who have achieved excellence in philosophical studies.
David N. Saltman ’83 Undergraduate Prize for Excellence in Philosophy
Logic Prize in Philosophy
This prize is awarded annually by the Philosophy Department faculty to a Clark undergraduate student who has demonstrated exemplary work in the area of symbolic logic.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Close reading of texts — the scholarly interpretation of classic texts of civilization
Careful analysis of arguments — the formal study of symbolic logic and informal study of the principles of good evidence and persuasive arguments
Clear and focusing writing — ensuring that we communicate difficult ideas in accessible ways
Clarity and precision in thought — the cornerstone of philosophical methodology
Integrating ideas — in addition to traditional philosophical subjects, philosophy engages in a wide spectrum of special topics, such as the philosophy of history, science, and art
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the philosophy honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
Kant and Bell: Form in Modern Art
North-South Biomedical Research: Moral Problems of Justice & Consent
Soren Kierkegaard on Being Human
Adherence to Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy for HIV Positive Individuals:  Biological and Ethical Considerations
Related Programs
History
Ancient Civilization
Jewish Studies
Law and Society
Ethics and Public Policy
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your philosophy knowledge into practice.
The philosophy major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, year-long, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by
academic interest, location, and language
; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a philosophy student:
A Student Anti-Genocide Coalition (STAND)
Amnesty International
Internships
Worcester Department of Public Health
Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum
Federal Trade Commission
AIDS Law Project of Pennsylvania
Christie’s Fine Art Auctions
Council of Women World Leaders
U.S. Attorney’s Office
University of Massachusetts Medical School, Behavioral Medicine Department
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means that as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty members have research interests in these subfields of philosophy: social and political philosophy, the philosophy of culture, philosophy of science, environmental ethics, biomedical ethics, metaphysics, philosophy of religion and more.
The philosophy major is designed to give you the frameworks you need to conduct
research
. Research topics have included privacy issues in the law, the concept of futility in medical ethics, and equity issues related to the management of nuclear waste.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Some students present their work and interact with philosophy majors and faculty from other colleges at conferences. Examples include:
Celebrating Philosophy Conference at the College of the Holy Cross: “The Contribution of Theater to Public Moral Consciousness”
8th Annual Southern Illinois University Edwardsville Undergraduate Philosophy Conference: “Kantian, Too Kantian: Nietzsche’s Critique of Kantian Philosophy and Beyond”
Ohio State Undergraduate Philosophy Conference: “Nihilism, Happiness, and Ancient Greek Philosophy”
Northern New England Philosophical Association at Dartmouth College: “Ethical Game Design”
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects philosophy students and recent alumni have presented are:
Stress Reduction Through Forgiveness with Tibetan Monks
Right to Die: The Case of Dolores Heston
Village of Skokie v. National Socialist Party of America
On the Incompatibility of Kant and Capitalism
The Divine and Infinite: Exploring the Sublime in Religious Philosophy
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
A major in philosophy will prepare you for almost any professional pursuit you may choose, including careers in business, law, science, health care, education, the media, and nonprofit organizations.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by philosophy graduates from Clark include:
Boston University, Graduate School of Management
University of California at Berkeley, physics and law
University of Pittsburgh, philosophy
New York University, law
Harvard Medical School
Cornell University, mathematical logic
Columbia University School of Journalism
University of Minnesota, J.D./MPH  program
University of Pittsburgh, neuroscience
Minnesota School of Professional Psychology
Career Outcomes
Law
patent attorney; corporate law; director of state environmental regulation; private practice
Business and technology
IBM, software engineer; Frontier Technology, human resources manager; bond trader; investment fund partner; entrepreneur
Human services
New York State Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, outreach coordinator; Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, program officer
Health
physician; municipal public health officer; Seven Hills Foundation, vice-president; pharmaceutical research, data analyst
Marketing and communications
Big Earth, director of sales and marketing; Patch.com, associate regional editor; novelist
College teaching and research
Stanford University, professor; Rotman Institute for Philosophy, professor; Lawrence University, president
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Philosophy
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy