Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/physics

Skip to content
Major in Physics (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Physics (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Computer Science
Computational Science
Environmental Science
Mathematics
Engineering
(3/2 program)
Observing nature. Discovering physics.
Through our hands-on learning approach, you’ll put your studies into motion the moment you arrive on campus. You’ll explore the fundamental laws and principles that govern our universe — from atomic theory to quantum thermodynamics.
Leading faculty members will guide your learning across three distinct tracks: comprehensive, applied, or general physics. You’ll merge your classroom knowledge with lab experiences, and collaborate with professors and peers on research — ranging from renewable energy to molecular lattice systems — as early as your first year.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
A
Accelerated BA/Master's
Why Study Physics at Clark?
Pursue your undergraduate degree in a department that’s been home to some of the most influential physicists in the world, including
Arthur Gordon Webster
, founder of the American Physical Society;
Albert Michelson
, the first American Nobel laureate in science; and
Robert Goddard
, the father of modern rocketry.
Use state-of-the-art research facilities, including access to a 50-tesla pulsed magnetic field laboratory — one of the highest magnetic fields available at any university in the United States.
Complete internships in cutting-edge research labs at Clark, or at other research institutions around the country, which prepare you for careers in diverse fields.
Take advantage of our 3/2 engineering program, which pairs a B.A. from Clark with a B.S. in engineering from Columbia University.
Physics
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
PHYS 243
POP
Technology of Renewable Energy
Get hands on with Clark’s microgrid by mounting solar panels, building wind turbines, and connecting electrical systems while learning about renewable energy.
PHYS 169
PLS
Information Theory, Inference, and Networks
Investigate the basic concepts of information theory and its applications to statistical inference and network theory.
PHYS 127
Computer Simulation Laboratory
Build competency in object-oriented programming while you explore the diverse applications and methods of computer simulation and apply your knowledge to projects of your choice at your own pace.
PHYS 167
Fluid Mechanics and Applications
Investigate the nature of fluids—liquids and gases—using analytical and numerical techniques, and through a group project that will have you building a table-top demonstration and creating a video presentation.
PHYS 131
PLS
Quantum Physics and Relativity
Explore the experimental basis of atomic and nuclear structure leading to the development of wave mechanics, and use modern research instrumentation to investigate contributions by Einstein, Rutherford, and others.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Physics Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
The physics major, which requires a minimum of 18 courses to complete, can be customized to meet your interests. We offer
three tracks
to choose from, depending on your career goals: the comprehensive physics track, applied physics track, and general physics track. In addition to core physics courses, you can take specialized courses in pre-professional physics, biological physics, fluid dynamics, information theory, the technology of renewable energy, electronics, and computational physics, and explore related fields such as environmental studies, management, government, law, medicine, and teaching. You can also pursue the major as part of the
3/2 engineering program
with Columbia University. If you’re considering a career teaching physics at the high school level, we encourage you to check out the
Noyce Scholarship program
.
Our physics program is aimed at helping you develop both an understanding of physical phenomena and your problem-solving and analytical-thinking skills. Throughout the physics major (or minor), you will spend a great deal of time thinking deeply about physics and working in the laboratory to discover how physical systems work. Starting with the introductory physics sequence, all our courses prepare you to apply your knowledge of physics and mathematics to study real-world and unsolved problems. Near the end of your junior year, or earlier, you can choose a topic for your capstone project.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Practical problem-solving skills
Critical and creative thinking skills
Quantitative and qualitative reasoning
Computational and mathematical methods used to learn and explain physical concepts
Academic Achievement Awards
Roy S. Andersen ’43 Award
The Roy S. Andersen ’43 Award was established by Roy S. Andersen and friends in order to increase the interest of high school students in physics and in the related sciences, including mathematics; to increase the reputation of the sciences at Clark University among high school students, teachers and guidance counselors; and to increase the public’s understanding of science.
Albert C. Erickson ’30 Academic Award
The Albert C. Erickson ’30 Academic Award was established by the Tupper Foundation in memory of the late Albert C. Erickson (Ph.D., Physics, 1934), to provide an annual award to a senior at Clark, who has done outstanding work in physics and mathematics, and who shows unusual promise in these fields.
Facilities
You will be able to use research-grade and advanced laboratory equipment, including a scanning tunneling microscope, an atomic force microscope, a SQUID magnetometer, and an X-ray-computed tomography system. We have well-equipped teaching laboratories dedicated to computer simulations, electronics, optics, atomic and nuclear physics, and materials science. You also will have access to the
Carlson Science Library
. Our electronics and instrument shops are available for use by faculty and students.
Learn More
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the physics honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
Topographic and Spectroscopic Analysis of Cuprous Oxide Nanocubes
Chaotic Biophysical Systems
Building a Vertical Wind Turbine for the Math-Physics Building Nanogrid
Analysis of Anisotropic Critical Fields in Superconductors
Phase Relations in Biological Oscillators
Designing a 2-Axis Solar Tracker in Order to Maximize Efficiency
Related Programs
Computer Science
Computational Science
Environmental Science
Mathematics
Engineering
(3/2 program)
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your physics knowledge into practice.
The physics major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Other students engage in service-learning work with organizations like Woodland Academy or the Infusion Center at UMass Memorial Medical Center, and at community festivals and events promoting the Worcester Food Bank.
Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, year-long, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a physics student:
Society of Physics Students
Clark Entrepreneurship Club (CEC)
Clark University Astronomy Club
Educational Studies Program
Internships
NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
Parametric Technology Corporation
Mercantila, Inc.
Stockholm Environment Institute
Watertown Public Schools
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
.
Our areas of research focus include:
Superconductors
Experimental condensed matter physics
Biological physics
Computational physics
Molecular studies
Chemical synthesis of new magnetic compounds
Quantum behavior
Medicine and other health sciences
We encourage you to become an active, contributing member of one of our
research groups
as soon as you are ready. You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice, during the academic year or during the summer. Research projects are conducted under the guidance of a faculty member, often with the assistance of graduate students. These projects can serve as the foundation for a senior honors thesis.
Some physics students have participated in summer research experiences at other institutions, including Johns Hopkins University, Colorado University at Boulder, Georgetown University, and Georgia Institute of Technology, among others.
Collaborate with Faculty and Present Your Research
Collaborate with faculty
Research projects often lead to publications in refereed physics journals. Recent collaborative student-faculty research work includes (Clark undergrads indicated by *):
“Origin of a superlattice observed in Li
0.9
Mo
6
O
17
by scanning tunneling microscopy,” Ling Fu, Aaron M. Kraft
*,
Martha Greenblatt, and Michael C. Boyer,
Physical Review B
(2016).
“Phenazin-5-ium Hydrogen Sulfate Monohydrate,” Joseph DeGeorge*, Christopher P. Landee, Ph.D., and Mark M. Turnbull,
Acta Cryst
(2013).
“Aggregation of Frictional Particles Due to Capillary Attraction,” M. J. Dalbe, D. Cosic*, M. Berhanu and A. Kudrolli,
Physical Review E
(2011).
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects physics students and recent alumni have presented are:
Lumbriculus variegatus
Locomotion in Granular Media
Studying the Surface Properties of Cuprous Oxide using STM.
Charge Density Wave States and Lattice Strain in TbTe3
Investigating Cuprous Oxide Nanocube Self-Assembly by Fluid Flow Mechanisms and Scanning Electron Microscopy
The Bistro USB Solar Charging System
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by physics graduates from Clark include:
University of Chicago
University of Southern California
Carnegie Mellon University
Cornell University
Harvard University
Career Outcomes
Mevion Medical Systems
physics assistant
Braintree Public Schools
high school physics teacher
Janis Research Company
lab supervisor
SolarOne, Inc.
engineering intern
Networked Information Services
web application developer
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Physics
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy