Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/political-science

Skip to content
Major in Political Science (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Political Science (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
History
Economics
Women’s and Gender Studies
Law and Society
Ethics and Public Policy
Power and the people
Understanding the policies and decisions that shape your life on the local, national, and international level requires keen insight and expert analysis. The bachelor of arts degree in political science from Clark University helps you explore this dynamic subject across three crucial areas — American politics and public policy, comparative politics, and international relations — in the context of a foundational liberal arts education.
As a political science major, you’ll investigate a range of issues that reverberate within and beyond Clark’s campus, including civil liberties, human rights, elections, and globalization. In line with our focus on action-based learning, you’ll collaborate with faculty members and peers to drive positive change through your research, internships, and service projects, at home and abroad.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Political Science at Clark?
Engage in hands-on learning experiences like Clark’s highly successful
Mock Trial team
and
Model United Nations program
(one of the top 15 in the country), where you can compete in conferences at Yale, Harvard, Mount Holyoke, and other colleges.
Apply to participate in a faculty-led trip to Washington, D.C., to attend oral arguments at the U.S. Supreme Court, and meet with professionals from a range of judicial agencies and Clark alumni who are lawyers.
Apply to the department’s
Harrington Public Affairs Fellowship Program
, which funds several political science majors each year as they conduct original research on politics and public policy, as well as service projects.
Political Science
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
PSCI 092
PLS
Women and War
Women have assumed both active and passive roles in violent conflict since the beginning of time. Here you’ll examine the impact of war on women and develop a broader understanding of women’s role in society.
PSCI 291
Lawyers and U.S. Politics
Examine the impact of lawyers on American politics as advocates for public and private interest groups, and through their roles in large law firms, legislatures, government agencies, and the courts.
PSCI 174
PLS
Middle East Politics
Explore this troubled region by examining ethnic and religious rivalries, authoritarianism and transitions to democracy, the role of oil, and the impact of nonviolent civil society and violent non-state actors.
PSCI 287
Refugees, Migrants, and the Politics of Displacement
Gain an understanding of and explore solutions to the global refugee crisis. Examine the factors that cause people to flee their homes, how they experience that displacement, and their impact on host countries.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Political Science Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
A minimum of 13 courses are required to complete the political science major. Foundational classes in research methods and political theory will show you how to articulate, evaluate, defend, and rebut answers to the questions that political scientists ask. You’ll choose a subfield of political science (American politics and public policy, comparative politics, or international relations), taking courses from the introductory level to an advanced capstone seminar. Classes outside your subfield, as well as Economics and the World Economy and a course in history, will broaden your knowledge base. You’ll have flexibility in your course selection.
Qualified students can join the Clark chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha, the national political science honor society.
Subfields of study in the political science program
American Politics
The American Politics and Public Policy subfield includes study of basic political and governmental institutions, major political processes, and important patterns of political behavior. Subfield specialists become familiar with each of these three broad areas, learning how the political system operates, why public policy emphasizes particular values and allocates certain resources to different groups and individuals, and who benefits and who loses in policy outcomes in policy areas such as housing, the environment, and the economy. The federal structure of American government and the diversity of the American population also require familiarity with state politics, urban and suburban politics, law and politics, African-American politics, and women and politics.
Comparative Politics
Comparative politics has two intertwined meanings at Clark:
It means immersion in the study of politics in two or more countries other than the U.S., and
It means deliberately comparing important factors, such as elites or policy-making processes in two or more countries.
Subfield specialists are given the chance to delve into politics experienced by elites and ordinary people inside other countries. While the U.S. is intentionally kept off center stage in comparative politics courses, most of them raise specific questions about American politics—its policies, experiences, and assumptions—as they are seen from the vantage point of people in other countries. The study of comparative politics alerts the specialist to the varieties but also the surprising similarities in how power is gained, and how it is justified and wielded in different countries.
International Relations
Political Science majors who specialize in international relations address global politics at two intersecting levels:
formal state-to-state behavior in terms of diplomacy, war and peace, intervention, law, and organization; and
translation of global interactions in terms of trade, development, social movements, refugees, human rights, ecology, and media.
Subfield specialists engage in rigorous theoretical investigations of competing analytic traditions as they attempt to explain ongoing problems of world order. Some of these problems are local, such as boundary disputes; some are regional, such as regional economic integration; and some are global, such as poverty, the greenhouse effect, or militarization. Similarly, the actors in world politics are diverse: national governments, sub-national governments, international organizations, private interest groups, social classes, and religious movements.
Academic Achievement Awards
Morris H. Cohen Prize for Excellence in American Political and Public Policy
The Morris H. Cohen Prize was established to honor Morris H. Cohen, who joined the Government Department faculty at Clark University in 1947, and, who until his death in 1990, set the highest standards in teaching. He always had a deep concern for all facets of undergraduate learning and undergraduate education and who, after retirement in 1989, remained an active member of the Clark University community by directing the Clark Washington Semester Program at American University. The prize is given to recognize the outstanding government major at the beginning of his or her senior year.
Sallie Robinson Holthausen Prize for Excellence in International Relations
The Sallie R. Holthausen Prize was established in honor and memory of Sallie R. Holthausen, a member of the class of 1958, by her family and friends. The prize is given annually to an outstanding Political Science student for excellence in the subfield of international relations.
The Zenovia Sochor Memorial Fund
The Zenovia Sochor Memorial Fund is awarded annually by the Political Science Department to declared Political Science majors or minors studying abroad in spring, preferably in an Eastern European country. Professor Zenovia Sochor taught comparative politics courses at Clark for almost two decades. She was known by students and colleagues as a gifted scholar, a valued friend, and a caring mentor. Alumni, friends, and colleagues created the Zenovia Sochor Memorial Fund to provide support to Clark students for study abroad experiences.
Irving and Edith Wilner Prize for Best research Paper in American Politics
The Irving and Edith Wilner Prize was established by Irving Wilner, class of 1932, to award a student who has published on a topic of practical significance in the improvement of the functioning of American political institutions.
Chair’s Prize for Excellence in Comparative Politics
Annual award given to an outstanding political science student for excellence in the subfield of comparative politics.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include how to:
Conduct political science research using appropriate data and methods
Formulate a research question and a thesis statement, and write a critical literature review
Use evidence to articulate and defend arguments about the relative merits of political actions, policies, and types of political institutions
Analyze and evaluate arguments and statements made by both scholars and political actors
Communicate effectively in both written and oral form
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the political science honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors thesis topics are:
LGBT Politics and Migration in Latin America: The Case of Argentina as a Safe Haven for Gender and Sexual Minorities
From Trials and Truth to Amnesty and Amnesia: Transitional Justice in Argentina and Spain
Anti-American Propaganda in Cuba: Stability through Fear
Theravada Buddhism’s Political Significance under the Military Junta (1992-2011) and President Thein Sein’s Democratizing Government (2011-) in Myanmar
Overriding the Tax Revolt: An Exploration of Why a Majority of the Voters in Some Massachusetts Cities and Towns Have Voted for Higher Property Taxes
Related Programs
History
Economics
Women’s and Gender Studies
Law and Society
Ethics and Public Policy
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your political science knowledge into practice.
The political science major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Some students participate in Clark’s
Model United Nations program
— one of the top 15 in the country — and compete in conferences at Yale, Harvard, Mount Holyoke, and other colleges. You also might be interested in joining Clark’s
Mock Trial team
to gain insight into the American legal system.
Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can participate in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams to complement your academic work. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a political science student:
STAND: A Student Anti-Genocide Coalition
Amnesty International
Clark Undergraduate Student Council
Asian Cultural Society
Democrats of Clark University
/
Republicans of Clark University
/
Socialist Alternative of Clark University
Internships
Local, state, federal and foreign governments, and international institutions
Office of the Mayor, City of Worcester, Mass.; Embassy of Papua New Guinea to the Americas; Bangladesh Permanent Mission to the United Nations
Think tanks
The Council on Hemispheric Affairs, Washington, D.C.; Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training, Arlington, Va.
Nonprofit organizations and public interest groups
Human Rights Watch; Boys and Girls Club of Worcester; American Civil Liberties Union
Elected officials
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren; former U.S. Senator Scott Brown; U.S. Representative Jim McGovern
Law firms and legal organizations
Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office, Boston; Legal Aid for Low Income Clients, Worcester, Mass.
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
on democratization and political participation in developing regions, immigration policy, identity politics in the U.S., gender stereotyping and politics, arms control and international security, civil liberties, constitutional law, and more. In recent years, our students have worked as research assistants for faculty projects on sexism in U.S. election campaign advertisements, and on variations in health care coverage for infertility.
In addition, you can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer. For example, one student conducted a comparative analysis of the asylum process in the United States and Germany, while another traveled to Myanmar to interview politicians and Buddhist monks about the changing impact of religion on that country’s politics over time. The Political Science Department’s
Harrington Public Affairs Fellowship Program
supports several political science majors each year as they conduct original research on politics and public policy, as well as service projects.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects political science students and recent alumni have presented are:
Healthcare Access in Cusco, Peru: The Urban/Rural Divide
Exploring the Use of Child Soldiers by Terrorist Groups in Mali
Africa and Institutions: South Africa’s Decision to Consider Leaving the International Criminal Court
Politico-Economic Evolution of Albania Post-Communism and Its Influence on the Present-Day Albanian Female: Analyzed Over the Eras of 1992-1997 and 1997-Present
The Arms Trade Treaty Conference: A Safer World
The Family Reunification Process for Undocumented Minors Detained at the U.S.–Mexico Border
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by political science graduates from Clark include:
George Washington University Law School, Washington, D.C.; J.D.
Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.; M.S. in foreign service
Columbia University, New York, N.Y.; M.A., School of International and Public Affairs
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.; M.A. in global security studies
European University at St. Petersburg, Russia; M.A. in Russian and Eurasian studies
Career Outcomes
Law
National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, research counsel; Rhode Island Superior Court, associate justice
Politics and government
U.S. House of Representatives, congressional member’s chief of staff; Massachusetts State House, legislative aide; Department of Housing Preservation and Development, New York, N.Y., project manager
Nongovernmental, nonprofit and international affairs organizations
United Nations Development Program, project coordinator; AmeriCares Foundation, director of Middle East and Africa partnerships; Enroll America, director of the office of the president; Credential Engine, partnership solutions lead; National Endowment for Democracy,  associate director for Latin America and the Caribbean
Business
American Stock Exchange, senior vice president; Monster.com, associate manager for government solutions
Public administration, public affairs and public policy
Economic Progress Institute, policy analyst
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Political Science
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy