Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/major/psychology

Skip to content
Major in Psychology (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Psychology (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
Sociology
Biology
Peace Studies
Holocaust and Genocide Studies
Are you thinking what we’re thinking?
As a psychology major, you’ll explore the human psyche and the connections between how we think, feel, and behave. You will learn how to promote emotional and behavioral health — both within ourselves and with others. Studying psychology at Clark provides the blueprint for a great career.
Psychology is a research-intensive field; given Clark’s commitment to action-based learning, you’ll be required to take at least one lab or research course, where you’ll be able to integrate the perspectives of diverse cultures into your work. So whether you’re interested in the psychology of genocide, child development, abnormal psych, or other areas within this rich course of study, you’ll have the chance to advance knowledge and make a difference.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
Doctorate
Why Study Psychology at Clark?
Join the department where the American Psychological Association was started in 1892 by Clark’s first president, psychologist G. Stanley Hall.
Participate in a rigorous program that’s unusual in requiring you to gain familiarity with experimental, statistical, and qualitative methods.
Collaborate with professors and doctoral students on one or more groundbreaking research projects, the results of which may end up being presented at national and international scientific conferences.
Gain hands-on experience and direct perspective on the field by completing internships at local organizations such as the Rape Crisis Center of Central Massachusetts, Massachusetts Department of Children and Families, and Worcester Recovery Center and Hospital.
Psychology
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
PSYC 254
D&I
Psychology of Sexual Orientation
Sexual orientation is the focus of many current social and political debates. Examine the nature of sexual orientation, how it’s assessed and measured, and shifts in the way it’s understood in today’s society.
PSYC 200
POP
Lab in Program Evaluation
How do you know if a program’s goals are being met? While participating in a real program evaluation, you’ll learn how to craft research questions, collect and analyze data, and report your findings.
PSYC 050
PLS
Psychology of Prejudice
Explore the roots of prejudice — how our minds make stereotyping easy, how different groups elicit different emotional responses, why some people are more prejudiced — and ways to reduce prejudice and stereotyping.
BIOL 143
Neuroscience
Our nervous system enables us to learn, remember, think, and experience emotion. Explore how these critical systems develop and function—especially in mammals—and their relationship to behavior and disease.
PSYCH 241
Psychology of Resistance During Genocide
Throughout history, oppressed people have risen up to fight for a better future. In this course you’ll investigate the psychology of resistance and how righteous dissidents continue to change the world.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Psychology Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
As a psychology major, you will complete a minimum of 10 courses in the department. These include four core courses and at least one course from each of these topic areas: basic processes, developmental/cultural, and social/clinical; a first seminar; a lab or research course; and a senior capstone. You’ll choose from a diverse list of courses on topics like learning, stigma and health, development, clinical psychology, addictive behaviors, and social psychology. You can also take advantage of intensive career-relevant seminars, laboratory, and research courses, where you can participate in discussions of research and theoretical issues.
In consultation with your faculty adviser, you also will be required to complete a minor or concentration in another field that complements your psychology major. Some examples include the concentrations in
peace studies
and
Holocaust and genocide studies
, and the
education minor
. Alternatively, you can work with your psychology adviser to design your own sequence of six courses.
Qualified students can join the Clark chapter of Psi Chi, the international psychology honor society.
Academic Achievement Awards
Simon and Eve Colin Undergraduate Creativity Award
The Simon and Eve Colin Undergraduate Creativity Award was established by the Colin family, Barbara, Fred and Rebecca ’89 Colin, in honor of Simon and Eve Colin and in recognition of the many values associated with active undergraduate participation in research. The award is intended to encourage inspired, innovative, and extraordinary students in their pursuit of research in Psychology.
Dr. Lee Gurel ’48 / John E. Bell Endowed Student/Faculty Achievement Award
The Dr. Lee Gurel ’48 / John E. Bell Endowed Student/Faculty Achievement Award was established by Dr. Lee Gurel, class of 1948, in honor of John Elderkin Bell, a former faculty member in the Psychology Department. The award, based on academic merit and chosen by the department, goes to the most outstanding senior psychology major who has attended Clark for at least three years. A second award goes to the Psychology faculty member named by the student recipient as having been most influential in their Clark education.
Herman A. Witkin Memorial Fund
The Herman A. Witkin Memorial Fund was established in memory of the late Herman A. Witkin, by his wife, Dr. Evelyn M. Witkin. Herman Witkin was a distinguished psychologist, internationally known for his programmatic work on cognitive style. The fund is used to support an occasional Herman A. Witkin Memorial Lecture, or a Witkin Fellow, or other memorial activity at the Heinz Werner Institute, Clark University.
Outstanding Undergraduates in Psychology Award
The Outstanding Undergraduates in Psychology Award is given to graduating senior psychology majors who have excelled in academics and research.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Knowledge of the natural world and human cultures and societies
Intellectual and practical skills
Capacities for effective practice
Facilities
The Psychology Department’s facilities include more than 35,000 square feet of laboratory space for all faculty and student research, including offices for graduate students.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the psychology honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
Seeking Self-Certainty in an Uncertain Time: Attachment Style and Self-Esteem in Emerging Adulthood
Distress Tolerance as a Mediator of Borderline Personality Symptoms and Anxious Attachment, and Obsessive Relational Intrusion (ORI): An Exploratory Study
Autism, Aggression, and Courtesy Stigma: Public Perception of Parents with Children on the Spectrum
Alcohol Use, Social Norms, and Sense of Belongingness Among College Students and Recent Graduates
The College Selection Process of Student Athletes
Related Programs
Women’s and Gender Studies
Sociology
Biology
Peace Studies
Holocaust and Genocide Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your psychology knowledge into practice.
The psychology major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs,  ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
The
Undergraduate Psychology Committee
, made up of undergraduate students, is an active part of department life, and sponsors a number of activities throughout the year.
You can also complement your academic work by participating in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a psychology major:
Psi Chi, International Honors Society in Psychology
Undergraduate Psychology Committee (UPC)
All Kinds of Girls
Best Buddies International
Clark Anti-Violence Education
Internships
The Rape Crisis Center of Central Massachusetts
American Cancer Society
Massachusetts Department of Children and Families
Worcester Recovery Center and Hospital
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty members have research interests in numerous subfields of psychology, including men’s mental health, social identity and activism, parenting, couples’ relationships, motivation, moral development, and adoption.
Contributing to research, and learning to function as part of a research team, are important aspects of your psychology training. As a major, you are required to take at least one lab or research course.
All faculty maintain research groups that include undergraduate psychology majors and doctoral students. These projects are usually organized so that graduate students provide much of the day-to-day leadership, while a faculty member provides overall supervision and guidance. Many majors choose to join one or more research teams in addition to required coursework. Research results are often presented at national and international scientific conferences. You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Collaborate with Faculty and Present Your Research
Collaborate with faculty
Some students have the opportunity to co-author posters, presentations, or journal publications with a faculty mentor and may attend professional conferences where they present their research and network with other psychologists. Examples include (names of Clark undergrads are indicated by *):
Nelson, T., Cardemil, E.V., & Adeoye, C.* (in press). From Perception to Transformation: How Black Women Negotiate the Strong Black Woman/Superwoman Role Within their Unique Context.
Psychology of Women Quarterly
.
Vollhardt, J.R., Mazur, L.B., & Lemahieu, M.
*
(2014). Acknowledgment After Mass Violence: Effects on Psychological Well-being and Intergroup Relations.
Group Processes and Intergroup Relations
, 17, 306 – 323.
Present your research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects psychology students and recent alumni have presented are:
Understanding Childhood Anxiety: Examining Relations with Controlling Parenting and Structure
Gay Dads Raising Daughters: Challenging Heteronormative Gender Socialization Practices
The role of ADHD among college students in committed romantic relationships
Analysis of Alcohol Use with Depression Symptoms and Emotional Regulation
Community Cohesion and Betrayals in Times of Conflict
See more examples of student research
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by psychology graduates from Clark include:
Harvard University; Ed.M. (education)
Princeton University; Ph.D. in social psychology
University of Massachusetts at Amherst; Ph.D. in clinical psychology
University of Montana; Ph.D. in clinical psychology
University of Georgia; Ph.D. in industrial-organizational psychology
Boston University; M.A. in mental health counseling and behavioral medicine
John Jay College of Criminal Justice; Ph.D. in forensic psychology
Career Outcomes
Boston Children's Hospital
research assistant
New Haven Public Schools, Conn.
school counselor
Medtronic
associate health economic analyst
Center for Clinical Investigation, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, Mass.
clinical research technician
TechTarget
senior marketing associate
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Psychology
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy