Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/screen-studies

Skip to content
Major in Screen Studies (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Screen Studies (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
English
Music
Studio Art
Theatre Arts
We’re anything but camera shy.
Action! That’s the word that best describes the academic life of a screen studies major at Clark. Here, you’ll dive deep into the history, theory, and aesthetics of film, television, and new media. In addition to historical and theoretical studies, you’ll step behind the camera as you learn from hands-on experience how to develop a movie from concept to screenplay to premiere.
Of course, film and video productions can never be separated from the society from which they emerge. Our curriculum encompasses the cultural, economic, and technical developments that influence motion pictures and all video art, both domestic and international.
Learn in the classroom. Learn in our editing suites. Direct your own education.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Choose Screen Studies at Clark?
Beyond traditional film studies: Clark’s screen studies major incorporates the history and theory of television, along with other new forms of digital media.
Engage in hands-on, practical, collaborative work in digital video production and make narrative films, experimental films, and/or documentaries.
Gain experience as an intern at a media organization in New England, New York, or California.
Create and collaborate with other majors in Clark’s
Visual and Performing Arts Department
(V&PA), including students majoring in
art history
;
media, culture, and the arts
;
music
;
screen studies
;
studio art;
and
theatre arts
.
Screen Studies
Feature Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
SCRN 261
Critical Perspectives on Television
Use various analytical approaches to examine the implications of television as a form of social communication, and develop an understanding of the ideological and structural dynamics that constitute popular culture.
SCRN 108
Introduction to Screenwriting
Beats, arcs, setting, characterization, and three-act structure. Learn the principles of screenwriting—both for Hollywood and indie film—by writing a screenplay of your own.
SCRN 214
D&I
Social and Cultural Issue Documentary Production
Design, produce, and edit a short documentary on a current social or cultural issue of your choosing while learning about the art of non-fiction storytelling.
SCRN 288
Queer and Trans Cinema
Study the history and theory of queer and trans cinema, from the “queer coding” of Classical Hollywood to the queer and trans effects of New Queer Cinema and beyond.
SCRN 130
PLS
Film Genre: Horror
Study horror film within larger historical, socio-cultural, and theoretical contexts. Special focus is given to the role of women both in front of and behind the camera.
SCRN 225
National Cinema: India
Learn about the masala film, Indian New Wave, and Bollywood by examining the history, culture, and form of Indian cinema.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Screen Studies Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research and Creative Work
Careers / Graduate Study
Thirteen courses are required to complete the major. You will enroll primarily in courses on the history, theory, and criticism of film, television, and other forms of motion picture media, as well as courses on screenwriting and video production. In addition to four foundation courses, two 100-level courses — in U.S. film history, international film history — are required. You will also take four advanced level courses of your choice from Screen Studies, one advanced-level film-making course, and one course in a creative medium from a different Visual and Performing Arts program. A capstone seminar or successful completion of an honors thesis completes your program.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Close analysis of a full range of moving-image forms
Historical writing
Theoretical writing
Ideological critique
Filmmaking (including sound, lighting, editing, set design, etc.)
Screenwriting (including the writing and revision of a 100-page, feature-length screenplay)
Interdisciplinary collaboration (at all levels, but especially in advanced production courses)
Academic Achievement Awards
Jason Michael Simpkins Memorial Endowment for Screen Studies
The Jason Michael Simpkins Memorial Endowment for Screen Studies was established by Larry J. and Michelle Simpkins in memory of their son, Jason Michael Simpkins, a member of the class of 2005. The award is to assist undergraduate students with the expenses incurred in completion of a film and/or a piece of written research. The recipients should possess high academic ability in screen studies and exceptional character, with an intention to pursue a career or higher education in screen studies.
Patricia M. Plamondon Undergraduate Award in Visual and Performing Arts
The Patricia M. Plamondon Award is given to juniors and seniors who have demonstrated their talent in and commitment to the arts and for whom the award will serve to enhance their studies, research, or project-related travel. The award is made annually by a vote of the full-time faculty of the Department of Visual and Performing Arts.
Facilities
Based in the
Traina Center for the Arts
, the screen studies program funds and maintains the Fuller Resource Library, home to the program’s extensive media collection which includes films on DVD and Blu-ray, archival 16mm and VHS items, and a digital repository of past student work. All collection material is available to view in the library, at either an individual media station or the group screening room.
Adjacent to the Traina center is Razzo Hall, a 194-seat recital hall/movie theater.
Honors Program
During the junior year, with program approval, students may pursue honors in screen studies. An honors project entails working closely with a professor to develop a thesis on a topic of your choice. Recent honors theses topics include the following:
Raised on Promises: An Investigation of the American Coming-of-Age Film
“Rat Girls,” a four-episode teleplay for an animated series
Postmodern Pleasures: Bollywood’s Relevance in the Global Age
“westing,” a student-created experimental documentary film
Overcoming Sorrow: The Struggle of Peruvian Cinema and Its Promise of Progress in Claudia Llosa’s ‘The Milk of Sorrow’
Related Programs
English
Music
Studio Art
Theatre Arts
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your screen studies knowledge into practice.
The screen studies major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
In addition, screen studies majors may be eligible for the
Sara Bickman Music and Arts Summer Internship for Undergraduates
, which provides financial support for summer internships for undergraduate students majoring in the Visual and Performing Arts, as well as the Jason Michael Simpkins Memorial Award for Screen Studies, which provides funding for film productions, research travel, and other needs for students developing advanced projects.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can also complement your academic work by participating in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a screen studies major:
Clark Film Production Society
Clark University Film Society
The Peapod Squad
Pub Entertainment Committee
Internships
Florentine Films
MyMollsEye Productions
LogoTV
The Smithsonian Institution’s Hirshhorn Museum
Legendary Pictures
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research and creative work
. Faculty from other programs, including art history, women’s and gender studies, and language, literature, and culture, often join screen studies faculty to offer international and cross-cultural perspectives on screen media.
You can also apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present your work
Our rigorous curriculum prepares students to present their work at several venues. Recently, students have delivered their work at academic conferences and have premiered their feature-length film in our auditorium, Razzo Hall, to rousing success. Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is also an opportunity to share student research or creative work with the Clark community. Some projects screen studies students and recent alumni have presented are:
“EYELINE,” a Feminist Detective Film by the Students of the Spring 2018 course,
Genre Production Workshop: Film Noir
SRK and the New Cine-politics of Bollywood (
Society for Cinema and Media Studies Undergraduate Conference
, 2018), paper written by a student of the Fall 2017 course, National Cinema: India.
This Isn’t a Dream; This is Actually Happening!: The Wake-Up Point in Contemporary Horror Cinema
A Flaming Trail of Masculinity: Gene Kelly and His Hyper-Masculine Persona
You can also submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by screen studies graduates from Clark include:
Columbia University; M.A. in film studies
University of Southern California; M.A. in cinema & media studies
George Mason University; M.A. in arts management
The Selznick Graduate Program at the University of Rochester; M.A. in film and media preservation
Career Outcomes
The Metropolitan Museum of Art
Associate Producer of Digital Content
Technicolor-PostWorks N.Y.
Assistant Editor
Light of Day Production and Visual Effects
Senior compositor
Silvatar Media
President
Leopard Films USA
Producer/director
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Visual and Performing Arts
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy