Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/spanish

Skip to content
Major in Spanish (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Spanish (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Latin American and Latino Studies
(concentration)
Political Science
Education
(minor)
Screen Studies
Vivir consiste en construir futuros recuerdos.
From Latin America to Europe, from Worcester to New York City, from Miami to San Antonio to Los Angeles, Spanish is one of the most widely spoken languages in the world. It is essential for business — not to mention politics, education, and culture. By studying Spanish you’ll learn about the people and traditions behind the language.
As a Spanish major at Clark, you’ll be required to complete a study abroad experience in a Spanish-speaking country, where you’ll use your language skills to interact with native speakers. You’ll also gain a deeper understanding of Spanish cultural identities by analyzing various forms of Spanish literature and cultural expression, preparing you for a wide range of careers.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Study Spanish at Clark?
Build core skills of linguistic and cultural competencies that will enable you to live and work in a Spanish-speaking country or community after graduation.
Learn from faculty members who are native speakers or fully bilingual, and who actively conduct research on diverse aspects of Spanish culture, from contemporary poetics and Puerto Rican identity politics to sexuality and gender studies.
Engage with Worcester’s rich Hispanic community by participating in courses that connect with local organizations serving the population, studying films at the local
Latino Film Festival
, or interacting with Hispanic political activists.
Spanish
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
SPAN 141
Spanish Translation Workshop
See what it’s like to be a professional translator. Explore the theory, techniques, and dilemmas of translating a variety texts — from social media and songs to ads and film subtitles — from Spanish into English.
SPAN 238
Hispanic Literature of Political Commitment
In this course, conducted in Spanish, you’ll read and reflect on the work of Spanish-language poets, writers, and playwrights, on both sides of the Atlantic, during times of 20th-century revolutionary change.
SPAN 246
Studies in Spanish Cinema
Hone your Spanish while exploring Spanish films of the past 25 years in the context of political and social change in Spain, and consider how cultural ideologies and identities are formulated in this medium.
SPAN 136
Women in Hispanic Literature and Art
Consider topics like identity formation, sexuality, education, self-representation, and others as you delve into works of literature, film, and painting created by female artists from Spain and Latin America.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Spanish Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
A total of nine courses are required to complete the Spanish major, including The National Imagination, which explores and critiques how national languages have been used to build and promote cultural continuity and identity through texts, films, and documentaries. Also required are Readings in Hispanic Literatures and Advanced Oral and Written Spanish. A study abroad experience in a Spanish-speaking country is strongly encouraged, and a maximum of four literature or culture courses taken during that time can count toward the nine courses.
As you begin to study Spanish at Clark, you’ll focus on building the core skills of linguistic and cultural competencies. If you’re a native Spanish speaker, you’ll be placed directly into Hispanic literature or culture courses. After you declare your major, an adviser will work with you to discuss and approve related courses and help identify areas of special interest to you. In your senior year, a capstone course will bring together all you’ve learned.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Intellectual and practical skills, like the power to communicate fluently in written and oral Spanish, the skill set to translate and interpret between Spanish and English speakers, and the capacity to interact in a culturally sensitive manner.
Ability to integrate knowledge about Hispanic language and cultures, which lets students provide arguments to justify their interpretations of Hispanic cultural and social issues, as well as the multiple meanings of Spanish literary and artistic works.
Personal and social responsibility, which provides students with the knowledge to become actively involved in the Hispanic communities of Worcester, the nation, and the world — through internships, independent research, and other academic initiatives.
Academic Achievement Awards
Theodore and Phyllis Barbera Award for Excellence in Spanish
The Theodore and Phyllis Barbera Award for Excellence in Spanish is awarded to an outstanding senior in Spanish studies.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the Spanish honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice. Examples of recent honors theses topics are:
“La Historia Que Se Repite: La Nacion Violenta (Argentina y Mexico)” or “History that Repeats Itself (Argentina and Mexico)”
“La representación de la mujer en la literatura chilena contemporánea” or “Representations of Femininity in Contemporary Chilean Literature”
“Interpretación de la ficción breve de Borges” or “An Interpretation of Borges’ Short Fiction”
Related Programs
Latin American and Latino Studies
(concentration)
Political Science
Education
(minor)
Screen Studies
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your Spanish knowledge into practice.
The Spanish major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. For example, you might learn the language from the world around you. Some Spanish majors participate in community-based-learning work at organizations that serve Worcester’s Hispanic community, like Centro Las Américas and Pernet Family Health Services, among others. You might study Latin films at Worcester’s annual Latino Film Festival, or conduct research abroad, as did one student who examined the effectiveness of schools in Colombia.
Many students take advantage of
internship opportunities
during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
A Clark-approved study abroad experience in a Spanish-speaking country is strongly encouraged for Spanish majors, and a maximum of four literature or culture courses taken during that time can count toward the nine courses.
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
website where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You can also complement your academic work by participating in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a Spanish major:
International Students Association (ISA)
Latin American Student Organization (LASO)
Youth Outreach Worcester (YOW)
All Kinds of Girls (AKOG)
Internships
Worcester Magazine
Elder Services of Worcester
May Street Elementary School
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
. Our faculty has expertise in a variety of areas, including Spanish, Caribbean and Latino literatures and cultures, and contemporary poetics, as well as sexuality and gender studies.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects Spanish students and recent alumni have presented are:
A Choreography of
La pregunta
/The Question by Neruda
A Short Bilingual Film on an Encounter with a
Jornalero
The Prevalence of Hispanics in Baseball
Promoting Second Language Acquisition in Spanish
Religion of the Tzotzil People of Zinacantán, Chiapas, México
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate School Placement
Graduate schools attended by Spanish graduates from Clark include:
University of Pittsburgh; Ph.D. in Hispanic languages and literatures
Arizona State University; Ph.D. in environmental studies
San José State University; MSW (social work)
Clark University; MAT (teaching)
Career Outcomes
Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass
World language department chairperson
U.S. Consulate General, Jerusalem, Israel
Political military affairs officer
Adelante Foundation, Honduras
International development coordinator
Service for Peace
Director of international programs
YMCA of the Greater Twin Cities
Community program director
Faculty and Programs in the Department of Language, Literature, and Culture
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy