Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/major/student-designed

Skip to content
Student-Designed Major (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Student-Designed Major (B.A.)
Request Information
I understand that by providing my contact information to Clark University, I am joining the Admissions Office’s mailing list and may receive both print and online communication relating to Clark’s programs and application process. I also understand that Clark uses cookies on its websites to offer a better browsing experience, analyze web traffic and personalize content.  To learn more about Clark’s use of cookies, please refer to the Privacy Policy at: www.clarku.edu/privacy. You may unsubscribe at any time by selecting the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any email communications or by contacting us at admissions@clarku.edu.
Accept
Cancel
Entry Term*
2025 Fall
2025 Spring
2026 Fall
2026 Spring
2027 Fall
2027 Spring
2028 Fall
2028 Spring
Submit
Forge your own path.
If you’re passionate, motivated, and know your interests and goals, you might choose to create your own major. Clark provides the flexibility to combine several disciplines into an integrated program of study that is personalized and rigorous, preparing you for success in the field of your choice.
You’ll work with faculty advisers to determine the shape and direction of your academic journey, which can include such valuable hands-on learning experiences as study abroad opportunities, internships, and community projects. Examples of previous student-designed majors include Japanese studies, music and technology, the psychology of marketing, and religious studies.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
Why Design Your Own Major at Clark?
Explore your own educational and career interests by creating a personalized, relevant, and rigorous course of study that meets Clark’s academic standards.
Benefit from the strong interdisciplinary interests of our faculty, who can advise and collaborate with you on research projects.
Graduate with the skills and knowledge you need to make your own way in the world — one that is both meaningful and rewarding to you.
The Major Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
After Clark
The student-designed major crosses divisions of study by integrating courses from several departments, allowing you to explore areas you’re most excited to learn about. Coursework creatively cuts across existing majors, drawing on our faculty’s wide range of expertise. The guidelines for the student-designed major are stringent and require that you conceptualize your major thoroughly. You will put together a committee of at least three faculty members, representing different areas, to determine your course of study.
Examples of student-designed majors:
Japanese Studies
Music and Technology
Psychology of Marketing
Religious Studies
Social Praxis in Public Education
Nearly any course can count toward a student-designed major, as long as your committee approves it. Many committees approve study-abroad coursework as part of the curriculum. You also can take advantage of the
Higher Education Consortium of Central Massachusetts
, through which Clark sophomores, juniors, and seniors can enroll in one course each semester at any consortium school. Student-designed majors often take on a significant community-related project as part of their academic coursework.
Students who design their own majors are highly motivated, academically oriented, and passionate about their goals, and often complete an established minor in another area of interest. Because flexibility is central to the purpose of this program, there is no single formula for the development of a student-designed major, or a process to choose a minor.
Skills You Learn
Skills you will learn include:
Collaboration through working with faculty and students from multiple departments
Leadership skills, by taking ownership of your major and managing your committee
Communication skills and self-reliance
Critical thinking, through exploring your academic options
Conceptualizing and executing a significant long-term project
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the student-designed major honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice.
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your knowledge into practice.
The student-designed major will help you learn outside the classroom. Many students take advantage of
internship
opportunities during the academic year or over the summer to connect what they’re learning with their professional development.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research.  Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by academic interest,
location
, and language; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Internships
Pathways to Peace
Merrill Lynch
Columbia Pictures
Burma Border Project
Harvard Medical School
Clark is committed to action-based learning, which means as an undergraduate you can join faculty and graduate students in their
research
.
You also can apply for
funding
to support your own research on a project of your choice during the academic year or during the summer.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects student-designed majors and recent alumni have presented are:
Agroforestry Systems in the Pacific Island State of Nauru
Entartete Frauen: Women in the Degenerate Art Exhibition
Domesticating Genetics: Evaluating Genetic Divergence Between Domesticated and Wild Fungal Strains
The Worcester Kindergarten Initiative: Supporting Local Agriculture and Closing the Health Gap Through Education
In addition, you can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Career Outcomes
Educational administrator
Attorney
Film director
Investment specialist
Judge
Nonprofit founder
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy