Link: https://www.clarku.edu/academics/undergraduate/programs/majors-minors/womens-and-gender-studies

Skip to content
Major in Women’s and Gender Studies (B.A.)
Home
Academics
Major in Women’s and Gender Studies (B.A.)
Request Information
Loading…
Sidebar Menu
Faculty
Contact Us
Download Major Map
Apply
Visit Campus
Related Undergraduate Programs
Psychology
Sociology
History
International Development and Social Change
See through the lens of gender.
The women’s and gender studies major explores how gender intersects with areas such as sexuality, race, ethnicity, religion, and other social identities — historically and now. You’ll explore women’s issues, the social construction of femininities and masculinities, and the gendered dimensions of virtually anything.
This interdisciplinary program incorporates perspectives from dozens of faculty across the university. From the personal to the political, from theory to practice, you’ll be expected to analyze and discuss diverse viewpoints and engage with gender issues on campus, in the Worcester community, and beyond.
Catalog Requirements for:
MA
Major
MI
Minor
Why Major in Women’s and Gender Studies at Clark?
Gain insights from applications of feminist theory that push you to think more critically about ideas and events that you encounter in your everyday life, while using gender analysis to understand and evaluate the lived experiences of diverse individuals and communities.
Develop an individualized area of specialization with the help of a faculty adviser; complete a minor or concentration — or a second major — in another field, as required, to support your specialization and to reinforce connections with other disciplines.
Carry forward a tradition of activism: Women’s and Gender Studies is a program with a history dating from the 1970s, when student activists urged their feminist mentors to begin offering courses in women’s studies.
Women’s and gender studies is one of seven undergraduate programs affiliated with Clark’s
Center for Gender, Race and Area Studies
, a community of faculty and students who study diverse, disadvantaged, or marginalized societies and populations, with an emphasis on promoting social justice.
Women’s and Gender Studies
Featured Courses
Arrow Icon
Previous Course
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
WGS 202
PLS
Masculinities in American History and Culture
Dissect the major trends that have created, influenced — and undermined — various masculine identities over time in the United States, as well as masculinity’s intersection with race, sexuality, class, and ability.
WGS 220
Queer Theory
In this student-led seminar, you’ll develop an overview of queer theory through five main topics: identity construction, activism and application, class and power, intersectional identities, and nationalism.
ENG 260
Making Gender Through the Eighteenth-Century Novel
Did you know that gender roles became more clearly defined in 18th-century Britain? Uncover how the texts of this period helped shape perceptions of masculinity and femininity, both socially and culturally.
HIST 212
D&I
History of Sexuality from the Enlightenment to the Present
Investigate how past societies determined which sexual behaviors were licit or illicit, and the institutions and individuals responsible for the regulation, repression, and occasional encouragement of the practices.
ID 120
D&I
Introduction to Socio-Cultural Anthropology
Use anthropological observation and problem-solving to gain insight into other cultures — and your own; and explore the practicality of applying anthropological knowledge to further the cause of a more just world.
PSYC 254
D&I
Psychology of Sexual Orientation
Sexual orientation is the focus of many current social and political debates. Examine the nature of sexual orientation, how it’s assessed and measured, and shifts in the way it’s understood in today’s society.
PSCI 092
D&I
Women and War
Women have assumed both active and passive roles in violent conflict since the beginning of time. Here you’ll examine the impact of war on women and develop a broader understanding of women’s role in society.
SPAN 136
Women in Hispanic Literature and Art
Consider topics like identity formation, sexuality, education, self-representation, and others as you delve into works of literature, film, and painting created by female artists from Spain and Latin America.
HIST 295
Dangerous Women
Throughout history, audacious, ambitious women have been called saints, sinners, prostitutes, witches, and nasty. In this course, you’ll explore the experiences and treatment of such “dangerous” women.
GEOG 136
D&I
Gender and Environment
From “Mother Earth” to “Father Sky,” gender concepts are embedded in our understanding of the environment. Explore how gender affects human settlement and land-use patterns, as well as ecological practices.
Arrow Icon
Next Course
View All Courses
The Women’s and Gender Studies Path
Curriculum
Hands-On Learning
Research
Careers / Graduate Study
Foundation courses
Core courses in Women’s and Gender Studies — WGS 110 – Introduction to Women’s and Gender Studies and WGS 200 – Introduction to Feminist Theory — will provide you with a solid foundation in women’s studies and gender analysis, while courses selected from many other departments will introduce you to a range of disciplinary approaches and perspectives.
Choose a specialization
Faculty from across disciplines are committed to teaching courses that explore the intersections of gender with sexuality, race, ethnicity, religion, age, class, ability, and other social identities, from within their disciplinary homes. You’ll work closely with a faculty adviser affiliated with the WGS program to refine your interests and develop an individualized area of specialization within the field. Areas of specialization cross at least two academic departments and form a coherent theme, such as:
Women in comparative fiction
Gender and environment
Gender, war, and militaries
Gender, identity, and sexuality
Feminist critiques of globalization
You are
required to complete a minor
or concentration (a second major is strongly encouraged) in another field to support your specialization and to reinforce connections with other academic disciplines. Some popular combinations include:
English
,
history
,
political science
,
psychology
, and
sociology
.
Courses to support advanced study
After taking a skills or methods course to support advanced study in your area of specialization, you will be able to apply the knowledge and skills gained through WGS coursework to a culminating research project or applied experience through an advanced research seminar, internship, or a directed study with a faculty member. Our students contribute to the production of knowledge in both activist and scholarly spheres.
Academic Achievement Awards
The Hazel Hughes Award
This award is presented in honor of the former Dean of Women, Hazel Hughes, for outstanding academic achievement by an undergraduate student.
The Alice Higgins Award
This awards is presented in honor of long-time Clark trustee and supporter of women’s and gender studies, Alice Higgins, for outstanding contributions to women and girls at Clark University and/or in the wider community.
The Cynthia Enloe Scholar/Activist Award
Created in honor of Professor Cynthia Enloe, this aware is given to the student who has worked hard to advance scholarship in women’s and gender studies and has been an activist in this cause.
Honors Program
During your junior year, you might be accepted into the women’s and gender studies honors program. Joining the program means you’ll work closely with a professor to create a thesis on a topic of your choice.
Learn more
Related Programs
Psychology
Sociology
History
International Development and Social Change
Building your foundation
The Clark Experience
The Clark Core allows students to take courses across diverse disciplines, helping them develop critical thinking skills and respect for other cultures and perspectives. You’ll connect classroom learning with action through world and workplace experiences.
Learn More
At Clark, your education extends beyond the classroom. Visit the
Career Connections Center
to learn more about
internship opportunities
that complement your coursework and put your women’s and gender studies knowledge into practice.
The women’s and gender studies major is designed to help you learn outside the classroom. Our program values engaged practice, and you’ll have the opportunity to attend public lectures; participate in networking events with community action organizations and support groups; and organize events to raise awareness about women’s issues and gendered identities, Women’s History Month, LGBT History Month, and related faculty and student research at Clark.
Many students choose to pursue
internships
during the academic year or over the summer to connect feminist theories with practice while building their professional networks.
Other opportunities include:
Study Abroad and Away
Participation in a Study Abroad and Away program is an opportunity to gain world and workplace experience to complement your on-campus work. Clark approves semester, yearlong, and summer opportunities to earn credit through academic coursework, internships, community-based learning, or research. Explore our
Study Abroad and Away
page, where you can search programs by
academic interest, location, and language
; after you’ve identified some appropriate programs, ensure they fit into your four-year plan by talking with your faculty adviser as early as possible.
Student Clubs and Organizations
You also can complement your academic work by participating in Clark’s many clubs, organizations, and athletic teams. Here are some student organizations that might be of interest to you as a women’s and gender studies major:
All Kinds of Girls (AKOG)
Students Advocating for Feminism & Empowerment
NARAL Pro-Choice Clark (Clark NARAL)
Choices
Internships
Abby’s House
AIDS Project Worcester
Girls Inc.
Institute for Women’s Policy Research
Pathways for Change
Clark is committed to action-based learning, and the women’s and gender studies program has incorporated action research into our program requirements. We encourage you to explore opportunities for joining WGS faculty and graduate students from other departments in their
research
. As a WGS major or minor, you may take an advanced research seminar, or design a directed study around your area of specialization with a faculty mentor. This research can provide the groundwork for an independent research proposal.
Visit the WGS faculty web pages
to select a research mentor closely aligned with your intended area of specialization, or visit our program office for a consultation. Our faculty areas of expertise are intellectually and geographically diverse, each drawing from their own disciplinary practices. WGS faculty may study the representations of various femininities and masculinities in the visual and performing arts, media, and literature; gay and lesbian studies; the histories of women and other marginalized communities in the U.S. and around the world; the gendered dimensions of resource extraction and economic development in the global South; the effects of war, genocide, and oppression on women and children; masculinity and men’s mental health; the psychology of sexual violence; and feminist and queer theories and methodologies across the social sciences.
You may be eligible for
funding
to support collaborative or independent research during the academic year or during the summer months.
Recent research produced by WGS students includes:
A presentation by WGS student Margaret E. Foster (’18) on “Beyond Binaries: Queerness as Transcendence.” Sponsored by Jennifer Plante.
Anna-Louise Noden ’18, submitted her Thesis on “Bad Behavior: Diagnosing and Treating Nymphomania Across the Female Life Cycle at the Turn of the Twentieth Century.”
A capstone project conducted during a study abroad experience at University of Geneva, which included researching and writing a paper titled “Relationships between Family Leave Policies and Citizens’ Value of Women.”
A directed study project investigating the roles of women in professional and collegiate athletics, which resulted in a research paper that informed the Clark Athletics Department decision to institute a “National Women and Girls in Sports Day Clinic.”
A summer LEEP project titled “Sex Work and Storytelling,” which involved conducting oral histories with former sex workers in Worcester; the project became a senior honors thesis that was presented at the Women’s Oral History Conference in Worcester.
Present Your Research
Clark’s annual
ClarkFEST
is an opportunity to share your research or creative work with the Clark community while you hone your presentation skills. Some projects women’s and gender studies students and recent alumni have presented are:
Beyond Binaries: Queerness as Transcendence
National Youth Survey on Youth Perspective of FGM (female genital mutilation) in the United Kingdom
The Influence of Race and Socioeconomic Status on Altruistic Behavior
Some students are able to develop their research projects into formal papers that they author themselves or co-author with a faculty mentor. You also may have the opportunity to present your research paper at a professional conference and network with other WGS students and professionals. Our students and recent alumni have represented the WGS program at the following conferences:
National Women’s Studies Association (NWSA) Annual Conference
Annual Feminist Theory Workshop at Duke University
Worcester Women’s Oral History Conference
You also can submit your research results for publication in our student-run
Scholarly Undergraduate Research Journal
.
At Clark you’ll get more than a great education; you’ll also be prepared for a long, productive career and life of consequence. And once you’ve completed your degree, you can join other Clark alumni who have gone on to work for great organizations and attend some of the best graduate schools in the world.
Graduate schools attended by women’s and gender studies graduates from Clark include:
Columbia University; MPH (public health)
Simmons College; MSW (social work)
Ohio State University; M.A. in higher education/student affairs
Simmons College; M.S. in nursing
Clark University; M.A. in community development and planning
Career Outcomes
Facing History and Ourselves
Print publishing assistant
University of California, Berkeley
Research associate
Harvard School of Public Health
Senior project coordinator
Comprehensive Housing Assistance Inc.
Senior engagement coordinator
Center for Progress
Email marketing manager
Explore the Women’s and Gender Studies Program
Learn More
Copyright © 2024 Clark University
Public Information
|
Privacy Policy
|
Website Accessibility
|
Nondiscrimination Policy