Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/associate-degree-medical-science-laboratory-medicine


Study
Courses
Associate Degree in Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
Study an Associate Degree in Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) at Flinders
Be at the forefront of healthcare research and medical science.
Become job-ready, faster. Equip yourself with practical knowledge and skills to broaden opportunities for a career in diagnostic pathology as a Medical Laboratory Technician.
This course has been designed to produce graduates who are knowledgeable in the biomedical and medical sciences and who have developed the practical laboratory skills and abilities to work in diagnostic pathology laboratories. Medical Laboratory Technicians work as part of a team with doctors, scientists and lab assistants. They conduct tests and other procedures used to diagnose and treat diseases.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
249041
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
2 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,944
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
110759D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
2 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
249041 (Bedford Park)
Why study an Associate Degree in Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) at Flinders?
Strong future demand on National Skills Priority List
(National Skills Commission)
Available for mid-year entry
Students will study and attend laboratory classes within the Flinders Medical Centre
Accelerate entry into the workforce after 2-years of study
This Associate Degree articulates with the Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) at Year 2.
Your career
This degree provides options for students interested in a wide range of careers in the medical and health sciences. Your workplaces can vary between hospitals, community health centres, research institutes, the government or private industry.
Potential occupations include:
Medical Laboratory Technician
Laboratory Technician
Technical Officer.
Potential employers include:
SA Pathology
Clinpath
Australian Clinical Labs
Private and public pathology labs.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Fundamental knowledge in the biomedical and medical sciences including study of Molecular Biology, Chemistry, Biology, Histology and Physiology.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Scaffolded learning and development of knowledge and understanding of a range of topics including Biochemistry of Human Disease, Haematology and Transfusion Science, Human Molecular Genetics and Immunology and Infectious Diseases.
Practical experience
Hands-on practical learning in biomedical science topics from first year. Students should expect to engage in interactive learning methods like team-based learning, experiential learning and case-based learning across medical science topics like Human Molecular Genetics, Human physiology, Haematology and Transfusion Science. Explore cutting-edge techniques and learn in our co-located hospital laboratory environment.
View study program
The Associate Degree Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) additionally prepares graduates for further study in
Medical Science
related areas.
Projected employment growth 2021 to November 2026
Source:
NSC Employment Projections March 2022
Pursue your passion with further study
The Associate Degree in Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) is different to the
Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
degree in that:
The Associate Degree is a 2-year program that does not have a work integrated learning placement vs 4-years with 26-weeks placement in the Bachelor Degree.
Graduate opportunities with an Associate Degree in Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) are for graduate employment as Laboratory Technical Officers or Medical Laboratory Technicians vs Medical or Hospital Scientists with a
Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
. The duties and responsibilities of a technical officer may be similar to a medical or hospital scientist though may be fewer and not as complex. The technician role is important in diagnostic pathology laboratories, for example in the preparation of pathology specimens and operation of laboratory facilities including specialised equipment.
The Associate Degree articulates with the Bachelor degree and can be used as an entry pathway to the
Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
.
It is an exit degree from the
Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
AND
Bachelor of Medical Science
at Year 2.
Explore your study options in the field of Medical Science
Study abroad
Study abroad options are available with our
Learning Without Borders team
.
Virtual study tours (pending availability)
Topic exchanges
Semester exchanges
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.95
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
95.55
98.25
Lowest rank to receive an offer
64.30
65.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
35
28%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
63
51%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
11
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
8
7%
All students
123
100%
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
249041 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
