Link: https://flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-geospatial-information-systems-bachelor-surveying


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems / Bachelor of Surveying
Study Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems / Bachelor of Surveying at Flinders
Start your amazing journey to become a surveyor.
Flinders University is the only South Australian University offering education in Surveying, with a four-year double degree combining a Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems and Bachelor of Surveying. It will enable graduates to qualify as registered surveyors in South Australia.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
SACE Stage 2 (Year 12) General Mathematics or the equivalent
Minimum selection rank
75.00
Guaranteed selection rank
80.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244981
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $7,300
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July (Part-time only)
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
SACE Stage 2 (Year 12) General Mathematics or the equivalent
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
114450D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July (Part-time only)
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244981 (Bedford Park)
Why study Surveying at Flinders?
The only Surveying UG degree in South Australia
You’ll be in demand with demand for surveyors and spatial scientists expected to increase; current estimates say surveying and geospatial completions need to increase 117.1% to 920 people per year to meet future demand over the next decade.*
Gain practical experience and develop on-the-job use of a range of relevant digital technologies in our dedicated Spatial Information Systems Laboratory
*(Determining the Future Demand, Supply and Skills Gap for Surveying and Geospatial Professionals: 2022 - 2032 January 2023 report).
Your career
As a surveyor, you'll tackle it all: scrutinizing landscapes from above, exploring ocean depths, and subdividing plots of residential land. You'll rub shoulders with architects, engineers, planners, land developers, conveyancers, and solicitors, all working together on noteworthy projects—both local and global.
Every huge infrastructure project relies on surveyors - Adelaide's under and overpasses, The Melbourne Metro Tunnel, NSW's WestConnex project, and the 2032 Brisbane Olympics.
It is a career for someone who likes working in different places every day, working in the environment, in the office, and with technology that ranges from scanners to satellites.
Potential occupations include:
Surveyor in areas such as:
Environmental management
Urban and regional planning
Human geography and environmental health
Land-use dynamics
Natural resources management
Ecosystem services
Biological sciences
Archaeology.
Potential employers include:
Cadastral
Archaeology and forensics companies
Construction companies
Engineering and mining companies
Defence organisations
Environmental projects
Marine companies
Aerospace agencies
Police.
Professional recognition and accreditation:
This degree is recognised by the Surveyors Board of South Australia, allowing you to become a licensed surveyor. This degree is also recognised by the Geospatial Council of Australia.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Core topics in geospatial information systems, mathematics, earth observation fundamentals and GIS field data acquisition and management.
Option topics in data science, statistical analytics, the nature of STEM, physics and professional skills.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Core topics in engineering programming, location intelligence, workplace preparation, plane surveying, mathematics, database modelling, drone observation, coordinate systems and satellite positioning and communicating STEM.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Core topics in spatial information management, advanced earth observation, engineering, mining and construction surveying, advanced space/time analysis, and precision field data capture and adjustment.
Option of elective topics.
12-week industry placement.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
Core topics in cadastral surveying, geodesy, hydrographic surveying, land law and administration and land development.
Surveying professional practice.
Surveying capstone project.
View study program
Practical experience
You will collect data in the field, input into computers, learn how to use computer software to manipulate and process spatial data to create useful information.
Gain practical experience and develop on-the-job use of a range of relevant digital technologies in our dedicated Spatial Information Systems Laboratory.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
95.30
98.10
Median rank to receive an offer
80.15
82.67
Lowest rank to receive an offer
63.55
70.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
5
18%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
12
43%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
8
29%
International Students
0
0
All students
28
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244981 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science (Environmental Science)
Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 31 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
