Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-geospatial-information-systems


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems
Study Geospatial Information Systems at Flinders
Create a career mapping the complexity of our world.
In this degree, you’ll be taught skills to support change, growth and analytics in areas like global warming, urban planning, mining and exploration, archaeology, transportation and biodiversity management. You will integrate field-based data acquisition with modern technology, computer workshops and classroom-based theory.
Geospatial Information Systems (or GIS) is a sector that is expanding rapidly and being increasingly integrated into almost every discipline. GIS focuses on systems designed to create, manage, analyse, and leverage all forms of geographic data. The Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems produces graduates capable of capturing, analysing, and managing spatially related information in a variety of locations from land-based and drone technology to advanced Earth observation platforms.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
75.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244721
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,700
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
110618F
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244721 (Bedford Park)
Why study Geospatial Information Systems at Flinders?
ONLY university in South Australia to offer a degree in Geospatial Information Systems.
Strong links with community, industry, and government departments.
Industry networking opportunities
Applied research project
Work with cutting-edge technologies (drones, LiDAR (LASERS), 3D imagery, state-of-the-art GIS software)
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems / Bachelor of Surveying
Bachelor of Archaeology
Search all combined degree options
Your career
The degree meets the growing need for specialists who know how to use these highly sophisticated systems. There is a strong demand for GIS skills across a range of areas including biodiversity and natural resources management, urban planning, mining and exploration, archaeology, transportation, and infrastructure management.
Potential occupations include:
GIS analyst
GIS data coordinator
spatial information officer
land resource information officer
GIS and knowledge management officer.
Potential employers include:
government
regional development centres
agriculture and horticultural centres
not-for-profit agencies
private companies that supply or collect spatial information.
Professional recognition and accreditation:
Completion of the Bachelor of Geospatial Information Science course supplies 30 educational points towards GIS-AP Certification from the
Surveying and Spatial Sciences Institute.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Introductory topics in Geographical Information Systems and Earth observation using state-of-the-art software and applications.
Core fundamental topics in STEM (maths and physics) and database modelling to scaffold higher-level content.
Topics in a minor of interest (select from; geography, archaeology, biology, data science, computer science)
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Field work using cutting-edge technologies (drones, LiDAR, scanners, satellite positioning data collection applications)
Topic in location intelligence designed to develop problem-solving skills and critical thinking.
Programming fundamentals in Python scripting
Technology driven topic in drone observation where you will gain experience with drones to image and scan features on the Earth’s surface.
Topics in a minor of interest (select from; geography, archaeology, biology, data science, computer science)
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Advanced topic in Earth observation, exploring frontier machine learning and AI technologies in this field.
Advanced topic in Spatial Information Management considering web-delivery systems and best practice in enterprise geodatabase construction and management.
Advanced topic in space-time analysis incorporating 3D space-time cubes and other spatial-temporal modelling techniques.
Capstone project in GIS
Industry placement opportunity to apply GIS skills in a real-world context
Honours Year
A honours year includes:
This is a one-year course offered by the college of science and engineering who have successfully completed a bachelor of Geospatial Information Systems or equivalent qualification with a high GPA. The program provides students with advanced skills that are required for planning, funding, and executing research or solution-driven research projects in the field of GIS.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
You will collect data in the field, input into computers, learn how to use computer software to manipulate and process spatial data to create useful information.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
95.30
98.10
Median rank to receive an offer
80.15
82.67
Lowest rank to receive an offer
63.55
70.20
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
5
18%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
12
43%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
8
29%
International Students
0
0
All students
28
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244721 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science (Environmental Science)
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
