Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-health-sciences


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Health Sciences (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Health Sciences
Explore health from the inside out.
An Honours year in Health Sciences will open doors to exciting career opportunities. You will develop new skills and knowledge as you work with experts contributing to research that matters.
You can undertake your Honours in Health Sciences in the health discipline of your choice including nursing, midwifery, physiotherapy, optometry, nutrition and exercise science. Working with experienced researchers you will help facilitate change and influence health care practice leading to better health systems, better care, and better lives.
CRICOS code: 048599A
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Health Sciences at Flinders
Work with supervisors who are global experts across a range of health professions including exercise sciences, disability, health sciences, nursing, midwifery, nutrition, physiotherapy, and optometry
Work on research that will make a difference in the world
Develop your research, communications and presentation skills
Collaborate with health industry partners and world-class universities from around the world
Prepare to continue toward a higher degree or next steps for your career
Your career
Around the world, health research specialists are needed to tackle current and future health and care problems. An Honours year is a pathway to a higher degree by research and research in the clinical setting. You can be part of the next generation of health researchers transforming lives and leading to new discoveries. Your skills in research and project management will be transferrable to the workforce and will help you lead new and innovative solutions and best practices in health settings.
Potential occupations include:
research assistant
project manager
senior positions within your health discipline
specialist graduate positions
Potential employers include:
health and medical research organisations
universities
government and private consultancies
aged care
not-for-profit organisations within health and research
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
During your Honours year in Health Sciences you will complete an independent research thesis in your chosen health specialisation. This will be complemented by multidisciplinary coursework from expert researchers in research design, contemporary issues in health, and research communication and translation.
Your Honours year will focus on research in a discipline of your choice, including:
Health Sciences
Nursing
Midwifery
Physiotherapy
Optometry
Exercise Sciences
Disability
Occupational Therapy
Speech Pathology
Audiology
Aging
Nutrition
Paramedicine.
Health Sciences honours projects
View study program
Entry requirements
The Honours degree in the fourth year is only available to start in Semester 1, therefore students who commence their studies mid-year will need to delay their Honours program by one semester.
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5.00 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
