Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-international-relations-political-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Study International Relations and Political Science at Flinders
You can shape the world. Gain the skills to drive political, social, and economic change.
Study International Relations and Political Science at Flinders and gain the expertise to drive impactful political, social, and economic change. Dive into the heart of political and social issues shaping our world, from international security and conflict resolution to inequality, disruptive technologies, and the future of democracy. You will develop a profound understanding of power, politics, policy, and international relations – all while gaining professional skills and real-world experience through our unique industry partnerships and internships.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244191 (Bedford Park) 284491 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
0100840
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,900
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244191 (Bedford Park)
284491 (City)
Why study International Relations and Political Science at Flinders
Study with SA’s largest group of international relations and political science experts, in the state’s leading political science department.
Take up global internship opportunities in the US Congress in Washington, DC and the European Space Policy Institute in Vienna, Austria.
Gain work-ready skills and industry connections in local placements in the Parliament of South Australia, SA public service, NGOs, and private sector partners.
Travel and study in the UK, USA, Indonesia, Japan, Vietnam, Sweden, Netherlands, China, and more.
Unlock new skills and broaden career prospects by including a language minor, with exciting industry placement options.
Learn with a focus on the challenges of disruptive technologies, climate change, inequality, and international conflict.
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science/Bachelor of Laws
Combining Law and International Relations and Political Science opens the door to a multitude of careers in international organisations, aid and human rights, government, transnational crime, terrorism, and non-government organisations, or as a lawyer or solicitor.
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science/Bachelor of Languages
Combining your Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science with study of a language will open a broader range of international study opportunities and improve your career prospects, both in Australia and overseas. Language studies also provide a greater understanding and appreciation of foreign cultures, which will further enrich your international relations and political science studies.
Other combined degree options
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Accounting
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Business (Human Resource Management)
Bachelor of Business (International Business)
Bachelor of Business (Management)
Bachelor of Business (Marketing)
Bachelor of Criminology
Bachelor of Finance and Business Economics
Bachelor of Finance
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Laws
Search all combined degree options
Your career
You will gain the knowledge and skills that are in high demand across multiple industries. Today’s employers are seeking graduates who can lead, analyse, and pre-empt movements within the domestic and international political arenas. As well as discipline-specific skills, you will develop enhanced general skills transferrable across industries, future-proofing your career.
Our graduates are employed in areas including international government and non-government organisations, diplomacy, foreign affairs, social and policy analysis, journalism, research, management, defence, intelligence, foreign aid, humanitarian services, politics, education, and language services.
Potential occupations include:
policy analyst
diplomat
public service officer
international aid or development worker
electorate officer
research officer or analyst
intelligence, security, or political analyst
risk manager or public relations specialist
education – teacher, aid, administration
journalist or digital media content maker
advocacy officer/researcher
human resources
See all events
Events
Shape the world
"I had a lot of practical opportunities at Flinders. I got to do two really exciting political internships...it's pretty crazy to think of an Australian sitting a couple of hundred metres away from multiple (US) presidents".
Meaghan King, Flinders Alumni
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics on international relations, democracy and government, public policy, political economy, and revolutionary ideas, and
option topics toward a selected minor, such as history or a language, or
option topics in innovation and creative thinking, and academic and professional communication, or electives from across the university
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics on international security, nationalism and populism, US foreign policy, research methods, public policy, and China as a rising power, and
elective topics examining issues such as the environment and climate change, Indigenous politics, and space governance, or
option topics toward a selected minor
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics focusing on cybersecurity and digital governance, Australian foreign policy; Indo-Pacific politics, inequality and the welfare state, and negotiating emerging political challenges
option topics including a selection of internship, placement, and industry placements to prepare students for employment
elective topics examining issues such as the environment and climate change, Indigenous politics, and space governance, or
option topics toward a selected minor
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
Designed with industry partners, this degree provides you with the practical experience necessary to succeed in the workforce.
Gain international perspectives through global study exchange links, as well as internship opportunities in Washington, DC and Vienna, Austria.
Work with foreign affairs and defence officials in learning simulations.
Experience South Australian politics through the Parliamentary and Cabinet Office internships.
Develop contacts and workplace experience through placements and industry projects with private sector and NGO partners.
Undertake research training pathways, including with the Jeff Bleich Centre for Democracy and Disruptive Technologies
Build in-demand workplace skills in data analysis, policy writing, critical thinking, conflict resolution, and diverse research methods.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through internships and short-term study abroad programs including:
Washington Internship Program
International Network of Universities Global Citizenship Program, Japan
New Colombo Plan opportunities in Indonesia and China and elsewhere.
Vienna Space Internship program
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.35
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
84.10
86.75
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.00
61.80
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
<5
<5
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
26
53%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
14%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
49
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244191 (Bedford Park)
284491 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
