Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-business-event-management-tourism


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business (Event Management and Tourism)
Study Event Management & Tourism at Flinders
Master Event Management and Tourism with practical skills and industry insights.
Discover how to create events and experiences that inspire and amaze, or how to help people explore the world in entirely new ways. This is more than a business course – you'll study a range of topics ranging from marketing to graphic design to management, accounting, sustainability and more. You'll learn how creativity and business come together, and how your ideas and skills can help you build a fulfilling career in private enterprise, government or as an entrepreneur.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
TBA
Guaranteed selection rank
TBA
SATAC code
245211 (Bedford Park) 284941 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2025: $16,992
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
058294B
Delivery mode
In person:
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $36,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245211 (Bedford Park)
284941 (City)
Why study Event Management and Tourism at Flinders
Industry-relevant curriculum designed by experts
Hands-on experience through projects and placement
Strong industry connections and networking opportunities
Comprehensive understanding of both event management and tourism sectors
Solid business foundation to support management, leadership and entrepreneurship in event management and tourism
Flexible study options to suit your lifestyle
Your career
The Bachelor of Business (Event Management and Tourism) is an industry-focused degree that prepares you for employment in a variety of positions in a highly dynamic and diverse international industry.
Potential occupations include:
Festival and Event Designer
Venue Manager
Tourism Development Officer
Conference and Exhibition Manager
Destination Manager
Marketing Manager
Potential employers include:
Event Management Companies
Tourism Boards and Authorities
Hotels and Resorts
Conference and Function Centres
Cultural Heritage and Conservation Agencies
“
I have really valued the hands-on experience Flinders has offered. Events hosted by the College have also encouraged me to network with those in the industry – vital to career success!
Celeste Ryan
”
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Core topics introducing you to event management and tourism industries, marketing principles, designing experiences, managing in modern organisations, accounting, and interpreting business data.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Core topics examining destination management and marketing, human resource management, global marketing insights, economics for business, sustainable tourism planning, business events, law, and coding for business.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Core topics exploring contemporary issues for event management and tourism, event management and evaluation, tourism and event business planning, leadership, business strategy, industry placement, and AI, cybersecurity and the future of work.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Gain practical experience through Work-Integrated Learning in both the tourism and event industries.
Build your professional experience with hands-on industry placements, community projects and research projects.
Study abroad
Flinders University has a series of international exchange links that give you the chance to study part of your degree overseas.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The ATAR and Selection Rank profile shows data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no ATAR and Selection Rank data available.
Student Profile
The Student Profile gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in a particular course. It provides data on students who commenced the course in the previous admission year. As this course is new there is currently no Student Profile data available
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245211 (Bedford Park)
284941 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is other business specialisations such as
Marketing
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 02 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
