Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-arts-screen


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen)
Study Screen at Flinders
Prepare for a rewarding career in the film industry.
As a Screen student you will make short films, documentaries, music videos, commercials, and experimental works. Topics are taught by filmmakers and passionate teachers who are actively involved in the industry. Uniquely, we teach you how to shoot on 16mm film for your final major project.
Screen at Flinders also offers training in cutting edge digital cinema cameras and feature film production. In film studies classes, you will develop your analytical skills, encountering major filmmakers, and important concepts in film history and theory.
Our graduates emerge with specialised skills, extensive experience and a professional portfolio of work.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
Audition/interview or portfolio.
Assumed knowledge
None
Minimum selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214571
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
Annual indicative fee
2024: $15,400
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Additional
entry
requirements

Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Additional
entry
requirements

Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
Audition/interview or portfolio.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
043144F
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Additional
entry
requirements

Entry requirements by country

Save course
Additional
entry
requirements

Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214571 (Bedford Park)
Why study Screen at Flinders
Combine practical training in screen production with study in aesthetics, history and theory of filmmaking
Work on short films in specialised areas such as writing, producing, directing, cinematography, location sound recording, production design and post-production​
Find your people, meet lifelong friends and collaborators ​
Work with experienced filmmakers, teachers and mentors
Produce high-quality work for global audiences
Develop workplace skills including communication, teamwork, problem solving, critical thinking and professionalism
Your career
Flinders graduates include award-winning writers, directors, producers, cinematographers, and editors. Your diverse range of skills and portfolio of creative achievements will make you attractive to a wide range of employers in the film industry.
Potential occupations include:
Independent producer
Cinematographer
Freelance director
Video editor
Film and television crew
Film programmer, exhibition and distribution roles
Independent creative content producer in sport, health, science, and tourism
Marketing or advertising content creator.
Potential employers include:
Screen production companies and producers
Postproduction studios
Corporate or government organisations
News and media organisations
Cinemas, film festivals, and film distributors
Events, galleries and museums
Healthcare and charitable organisations
Sports organisations and broadcasters.
Accreditation / recognition:
Students and graduates can apply to join the
Australian Writer's Guild
,
Australian Directors’ Guild
,
Australian Cinematographers Society
,
Australian Production Designers’ Guild
,
Australia Screen Sound Guild
, and
Australian Screen Editors
.
Crew may join
Media, Entertainment & Arts Alliance (MEAA)
and producers
Screen Producers Australia
Graduates can apply for grants from
Carclew
(under 26),
Helpmann Academy
(up to 5 years post graduation) and
The Mercury
.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Develop your production skills: camera, lighting, sound, editing and post-production.
Learn the fundamentals of film analysis and media theory.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Produce short documentaries and narrative drama.
Study screenwriting and develop your own scripts.
Study major filmmakers, film movements, and industries.
Have the opportunity to take part in an international field trip.
Learn to operate a variety of camera systems including Sony, Canon and ARRI.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Collaborate on large-scale student productions and make 16mm short films.​
Undertake a work placement with an industry partner.
Write a feature film screenplay.
Further specialise through study of film history and contemporary screen cultures.
Honours Year
A typical Honours year may include:
The Honours year is focused on providing an opportunity for students to complete a year of independent creative work under the supervision of an academic staff member:
Produce your own short film, documentary, web series, feature film or TV pilot​
Bring together a team of cast and crew​
Showcase your skills and find an audience.
View study program
Practical experience
Practical experience is embedded throughout this degree. You’ll have the opportunity to put your theory into practice with real-world industry opportunities and large-scale students-led productions.
Work Placements are embedded across the degree:
100 hours experience in an industry​ or professional workplace​
Simulated workplace settings on campus​
Projects with industry and community organisations.
Assessment activities designed to simulate authentic workplaces
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program, and intensive field trips to international film festivals (e.g. a New Colombo Plan trip to Hong Kong) through a limited number of fully-funded student places.
Why study Screen Production at Flinders?
Making 16mm films
Flinders University is one of the only universities to teach the use of 16mm film. Explore the making of a 16mm film with Screen Production lecturers Dr Tom Young and Helen Carter.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
77.63
82.13
Lowest rank to receive an offer
51.20
60.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
58
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
28
11%
Work and life experience
23
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
94
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
36
15%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
247
100%
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214571 (Bedford Park)
Additional entry requirements
Applicants must also submit:
a supporting statement - responding to why they wish to study the course
a Curriculum Vitae - including details of publications, performance, work history, training or other experience they consider relevant to their application
a show-reel/portfolio - examples of original work in film, video production, creative written work, photography, art work, graphic design and/or production management materials.
Applicants will be sent details on how to submit the above information as soon as possible after their application is received.
Applicants who submit the above will also be required to attend a short interview to discuss the content of their portfolio. Please refer to the below document for details.
Download additional application requirements
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Film and Television)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
Applicants are required to submit a written statement, CV and a show reel/portfolio, and submit a completed and signed coversheet.
Download additional application requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Applying for the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen).
Find out how to put together your portfolio for the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen) as well as which options you have should you not make it into the degree the first time around.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
