Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-arts-visual-effects-entertainment-design


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design)
Study Visual Effects and Entertainment Design at Flinders
Bring your art to life.
Bring your art to life.
Game of Thrones fans, Fortnite addicts and Pixar lovers: turn your passion into a successful career in the exciting world of film, television, gaming, animation and digital design.
Flinders and CDW Studios combine forces to offer this hands-on degree, giving you exclusive access to industry leaders throughout your studies. You’ll be taught by instructors who have unparalleled experience in VFX, attend masterclasses by international experts, and receive input from professionals who have worked across major film and game projects like The Avengers, World of Warcraft, Disney and The Lego Movie.
You’ll also experience
The Void
, a cutting-edge experimentation space where you can transform your idea into digital reality. With a range of specialised streams, small class sizes and hands-on experiences, you will graduate with a world-class portfolio under your arm and a bright future.
Get ready to acquire the skills, mindset and contacts needed to reach the top of your game in your dream career.
This course is also available as hybrid learning to
NSW and Vic applicants
.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
Portfolio, CV and written statement.
Assumed knowledge
None
2023 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224131 (Bedford Park) 284181 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,900
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Additional
entry
requirements

Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Additional
entry
requirements

Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
Portfolio, CV and written statement.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
099436J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Additional
entry
requirements

Entry requirements by country

Save course
Additional
entry
requirements

Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224131 (Bedford Park)
284181 (City)
This course is available as hybrid learning to NSW and Vic applicants.
Find out more
.
Why study Visual Effects and Entertainment Design at Flinders
Practice-based courses linked directly to industry skills
Expert tutors with ongoing industry experience on major projects
Opportunity to take part in 'The Rookies' global competition
Growing demand internationally and locally
Study 2D, 3D, Animation, VFX
Graduates are sought after all over the world. Alumni are working both in Australia and overseas on major feature films and projects
We have strong connections to industry and long experience in preparing graduates for rewarding, meaningful careers.
World #7
2D Animation School
The Rookies Awards 2023
Australia's #2
3D Animation School
The Rookies Awards 2023
World #17
Concept Art & Illustration School
The Rookies Awards 2023
Your career
Flinders graduates include 2D concept artist and 3D modellers, animators, matte painters, cinematographers, editors, illustrators, producers VFX artists. Your diverse range of skills and portfolio of creative achievements will make you attractive to a wide range of employers in the arts and communication industries internationally.
Potential occupations include:
concept artist
animator (2D or 3D)
digital designer
production artist
game developer
illustrator.
Potential employers include:
Film and television
Digital media and design companies
VFX companies
Video game developers
other media production companies including:
Monkeystack
Gameloft
Blizzard
Disney
Pixar
Technicolor
Choose from 4 streams
The Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design) offers four streams of study, akin to majors, providing you with the unique opportunity to shape your degree according to your passions and career aspirations.
Study 2D
Tailored for imaginative and creative individuals, the 2D stream is an ideal pathway for those aspiring to excel in digital art, entertainment design, or illustration.
It encompasses core topics such as the 2D Bootcamp, a comprehensive course focusing on design and illustration fundamentals, and a range of electives you can select based on your specific area of interest, such as Character Design, Digital Painting, and Concept Art.
Study 3D
The 3D stream is perfect for technical and creative people working toward a career in 3D modelling or design.
It includes core topics like the 3D Bootcamp (focusing on 3D fundamentals) and 3D Modelling and electives based on your key area of interest, like Creature Design and 3D Modelling for Games.
Study Animation
The Animation Stream focuses on Animation fundamentals, weight, balance, timing, and Character Interaction.
It includes core topics like Animation boot camp and Animation Pipeline and electives in Storyboarding and 3D Animation Principles.
Study VFX
If you are an artist who loves technical challenges and wants to work at the final point of the production process, then the BCA-VEED VFX Stream is perfect for you.
The VFX stream includes core topics like VFX Bootcamp and Matte Painting, with electives in Digital Compositing, CGI Fundamentals, and Motion Capture.
What you will study
First year
First year topics enable you to develop skills in 2D, 3D and production work in digital media with CDW Studios. Alongside developing skills in digital media, additional topics are available in areas such as screen and media culture, visual arts and IT. Academic skills are developed through the core first year topic in academic and professional communication.
Second year
In second year, you are able to develop skills in a range of areas suitable to your interests and skills, such as 2D and 3D animation, game art, and entertainment design with CDW Studios. Elective topics contribute to a second area of specialisation in digital media production, screen production, screen and media culture, visual arts, information technology, or business studies.
Third year
Third year includes a significant practicum or project in which you can put your skills and creative intelligence into industry practices and pipelines. A range of other electives exist, including opportunities to work with a number of our partners in game art, animation and visual effects.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Gain hands-on practical experience and produce short films, animations, graphic novels and games for a professional portfolio.
Undertake a range of industry placements and learn directly from the best.
Visual Effects and Entertainment Design now available in NSW and Victoria!
We are introducing hybrid-learning offerings in New South Wales and Victoria. This means, you can study this award-winning, top-ranked Visual Effects and Entertainment Design degree from your own state.
You’ll have access to all of the same classes and world-renowned instructors that students in SA do, through innovative learning both online and in person. Simply apply through
SATAC
(City course code: 284181) to begin your journey.
International masterclasses
CDW Studios regularly hold master class events throughout the year. International master classes see us bring out some of the best name’s in the industry out to Australia, exclusively to teach the event.
Each master class is a 3-day intensive workshop which is taught by an artist at the top of their industry.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
77.63
82.13
Lowest rank to receive an offer
51.20
60.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
58
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
28
11%
Work and life experience
23
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
94
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
36
15%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
247
100%
Straight out of uni into a hollywood blockbuster, Flinders’ graduate Anthony Robinson stepped out into Mortal Kombat.
Learn more
“I chose Flinders because it was connected to CDW Studios and I was very familiar with them from several classes I had taken with them. I started when I was 13 years old. I knew their high quality of teaching and that I was going to get a great education out of it.”
Bradley
Bachelor of Creative Arts
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224131 (Bedford Park)
284181 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Additional entry requirements
Applicants must also submit:
a supporting statement - responding to why they wish to study the course
a portfolio - examples of original work in film, video production, creative written work, photography, art work, graphic design and/or production management materials.
Students who have completed 18 units or more within the Bachelor of Information Technology (Digital Media) or the Bachelor of Creative Industries (Interactive Design) will not be required to submit a supporting statement or portfolio when applying for a transfer into this course.
Download additional application requirements
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous Higher Education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Media and Communication
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Digital Media)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
Applicants must demonstrate their creative abilities through the submission of a portfolio, written statement, curriculum vitae and referee details.
Download additional application requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Developing your portfolio for the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design).
Find out how to put together your portfolio for the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Visual Effects and Entertainment Design) as well as which options you have should you not make it into the degree the first time around.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
We’re here to help you every step of the way.
If you would like to talk to one of our friendly advisers about applying to university or to discuss your study options and pathways, please contact us.
1300 354 633
Book a chat
Apply for study in 2025
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
