Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-laws


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry
Study Laws at Flinders
Expect More of Law at Flinders University. We offer the perfect balance of legal training, support, placements, skills and innovation.
The Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry combines traditional legal training with a future-focused curriculum.
Flinders Law prepares you to become a lawyer and a leader — you’ll receive more support, more placements, and more advanced skills.  You’ll gain cutting-edge practical experience and build networks with industry years before you graduate.
Successful completion of the Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry provides direct entry to the Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice delivered in collaboration with Leo Cussen in the Adelaide CBD.
Note: As of 2023, the Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry has replaced the Bachelor of Laws and Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
Minimum selection rank
90.00
Guaranteed selection rank
95.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245041 (Bedford Park) 284511 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
Duration
3.5 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
6.5
Speaking
6.5
Listening
6.5
Reading
6.5
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
0100911
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3.5 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $39,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245041 (Bedford Park)
284511 (City)
Why study Laws at Flinders
Dive into social justice challenges and gain formal legal innovation training to help you thrive in a rapidly changing world.
At our
Flinders Legal Centre
, students work with supervising solicitors to offer free, independent and confidential legal advice and information to the community. You'll get to explore a wide range of legal issues and build the knowledge and skills required for a career in Law.
Increase access to justice by creating real legal tech solutions for industry clients.
Graduate with a Bachelor of Laws and seamlessly transition to the Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice, delivered in collaboration with
Leo Cussen in the Adelaide CBD.
Qualify to practise law by fast tracking the completion of your practical legal training, enabling you to seek admission to the Supreme Court and practise law in any state or territory of Australia.
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
A law degree also opens the door to careers outside of the law, including banking and finance, environmental protection and development, politics, marketing and communications, business, management, and leadership.
Pursue multiple passions and broaden your career prospects further, by choosing a combined degree. Some of the options include:
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Accounting
Bachelor of Criminology
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Psychological Science
Search all combined degree options
Your career
You’ll have countless career opportunities with a Law degree.  Flinders Law students are prepared to take advantage of future-focused roles in a wide variety of organisations: in areas of law this includes corporate law, family law, human rights law, property law, and much more.
Potential occupations include
Lawyer
Solicitor
Barrister
General Counsel
Judge
Legal Analyst
Legal Transformation Manager
Risk & Compliance Manager
Consultant
Policy Adviser.
Potential employers include
Law firms
Law courts
Commercial organisations
International agencies
Government departments
Community legal centres.
Accreditation
Successful completion of the Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry provides satisfies the academic requirements to become admitted as a barrister and solicitor in any state or territory of Australia. Completion also provides direct entry to the Graduate Diploma of Legal Practice, delivered in collaboration with Leo Cussen.
Successful completion of the both the Bachelor of Laws and Graduate Diploma of Legal Practice satisfies all requirements (both academic and practical) for admission as a barrister and solicitor in any state or territory of Australia.
“
Flinders opened doors for me that I never would have been able to open on my own. I was given so many opportunities, and made so many professional connections by attending a uni that had such a strong focus on practical experiences.
Marielle Intveld, Law
”
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Core topics that will give you a strong foundation for later substantive law topics including: Introduction to Law and Justice; Essential Legal Skills; Ethics and Professional Responsibility; Legal Innovation; Indigenous Peoples, Colonialism and Law; International Law and Global Perspectives; Criminal Law and Procedure; and Innovating Social Justice.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Core topics, including: Torts; Contracts; Property, Equity and Trusts; Jurisprudence; Real Property Law; Corporate Law; and two law option topics to develop areas of interest.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Core topics, including: Administrative Law; Constitutional Law; Civil Procedure, and Evidence; Law in a Digital Age; and Law in Action; and two law option topics to develop areas of interest.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
Select three law option topics to further develop areas of interest.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience / placement
Students participate in Work Integrated Learning as part of this course.
The topics that involve these experiences include
Law in Action
in which students undertake a semester-long placement for one day a week in either the Flinders Legal Centre, Digital Law Lab or with an industry partner; and the
Digital Lawyer
, where students are engaged by real-world clients to solve real-world legal problems using an intersection of technology and law.
Participating in placement opportunities may require screening checks to assess the risk of a person working with vulnerable people, such as a Working with Children Check.
*Screening checks will also be necessary in order to complete the placement component of the Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas -
learn more
.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.20
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
91.60
94.15
Lowest rank to receive an offer
82.55
90.55
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
45
32%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
46
33%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
29
21%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
8
6%
International Students
6
4%
All students
140
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants for this course can apply using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list is:
Diploma in Laws
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) Legal Practice Entry
Bachelor of International Relations & Political Science
Apply directly via SATAC
Select your accounting degree and apply directly through the MySATAC application portal.
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry
245041 (Bedford Park)
284511 (City)
Or choose to study a combined degree and apply directly through the MySATAC application portal.
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Accounting
244931 (Bedford Park)
284531 (City)
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Criminology
244951 (Bedford Park)
284571 (City)
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Information Technology
284771 (Bedford Park)
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Business
244941 (Bedford Park)
284541 (City)
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
244961 (Bedford Park)
284581 (City)
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Psychological Science
245151 (Bedford Park)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 04 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
