Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-computer-science-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours)
Study Computer Science at Flinders
Program the future of computing and technology.
Develop a comprehensive understanding of both the theoretical and practical aspects of computing technologies, and prepare yourself for a career in a computing-related field. You will gain the practical experience required to design efficient, reliable software that meets industry standards and also learn about the hardware on which software runs.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
SACE stage two general mathematics or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
80.00
Guaranteed selection rank
80.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224431
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,944
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
SACE stage two general mathematics or equivalent.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
074829J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224431 (Tonsley)
Why study Computer Science at Flinders
Gain skills in the core computing technologies and knowledge of general computing and programming
Develop the necessary expertise in programming and software development to prepare you for work as a professional software designer
Gain the theoretical knowledge and skills required for a rewarding career or further computer science research and study
Fully accredited by the Australian Computer Society
Earn your professional membership with the Australian Computer Society
Your career
Graduates gain positions in database development and administration, hardware support, project management, sales and marketing, telecommunications, web development and security.
Potential occupations include:
analyst programmer
computer scientist
graduate software developer
information technology officer
database administrator.
Potential employers include:
public agencies
private agencies
self-employment.
Professional accreditation/recognition
All our Bachelor of Information Technology and Bachelor of Computer Science degrees are accredited by the Australian Computer Society at the professional level.  Professional ICT courses accredited by the Australian Computer Society are recognised internationally under the Seoul Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered status as ICT professionals.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in the key concepts, terminology and skills of computing, information and communication technology
an introduction to computer programming
introductory topics in electronics and mathematics.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
an intermediate computer programming topic
core topics in software engineering
study in computer mathematics, and computer networks and operating systems
a selection of topics in areas such as intelligent systems, engineering and game design.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
a complex computer programming topic
topics in the theory and practice of computation, enterprise cloud systems and interactive computer systems
study in advanced database techniques and concepts
a topic in engineering and science project management
a computer science project, 12 weeks of work experience or a selection of topics in business, computing, engineering and digital media.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
an in-depth investigation of a particular area in a major thesis project
a selection of topics from a range of areas, particularly computer science, information technology and software.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Graduate with the applied skills, tools and techniques to work as a professional software designer and developer.
Learn to work professionally as an individual or in a team.
Choose to undertake a 12-week industry placement in your final year.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.25
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
72.67
78.17
Lowest rank to receive an offer
55.85
63.90
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
13
25%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
19
37%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
7
13%
International Students
11
21%
All students
52
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
You can combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224431 (Tonsley)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Information Technology
Bachelor of Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
