Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-nutrition-dietetics


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Nutrition and Dietetics
Study Nutrition and Dietetics at Flinders
Help people achieve the best health through nutrition.
Prepare to become a professional who can interpret and translate scientific knowledge into practical information to help people improve their health through diet. You will gain knowledge about the nature, management and prevention of diet-related diseases, and the social and psychological factors that influence what people eat.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
78.00
Guaranteed selection rank
95.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214381
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,700
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
7.0
Writing
7.0
Speaking
7.0
Listening
7.0
Reading
7.0
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
028941B
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $43,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214381 (Bedford Park)
Why study Nutrition and Dietetics at Flinders
Accredited by Dietitians Australia
Flinders has over 45 years of teaching and research expertise in Nutrition & Dietetics and ranks well above world standard (Australian Government's latest Excellence in Research Australia Rankings 2018).
Staff are accredited practising dietitians with links to the profession
Honours program is embedded into the final year of study for eligible students
Online study for a select number of topics during the first three years
Your career
The degree prepares graduates to work as professional dietitians in a range of settings.
Careers in Nutrition
Potential occupations include:
clinical dietitian
sports dietitian
consultant and private practitioner
dietitian working in rehabilitation
community health dietitian
diabetes educator
food industry dietitian
research project officer
health promotion officer.
Potential employers include:
hospitals
community health centres
private practice and consultancy
food industries
research institutions.
Professional accreditation/recognition
This degree is accredited by the Dietitians Association of Australia and is recognised in Singapore, UK, New Zealand and Canada.
See all events
Events
Good nutrition is fundamental to a healthy life and can influence our lives from the moment we are born. Nutrition Professionals explore the relationship between diet, health and disease prevention.
Learn more about careers in Nutrition
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
research and study skills
core topics in molecular basis of life, how your body works, Indigenous health for health sciences, food systems, nutrition, physical activity and health, psychology, and chemistry for the life sciences
study of chemical structure and bonding or general chemistry.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
research and study skills
core topics in biochemistry, human physiology, integrative human physiology, biochemistry of human disease, nutrition across the life cycle, food products and preparation, and individual, social and environmental perspectives on food consumption.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
research and study skills
core topics in the role and function of nutrients, the nutrition care process, communication and nutritional counselling, clinical nutrition and dietetics, public health and community nutrition, and food service and professional practice.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
core topics in theory and practice of food service, and research methods and skills in evidence-based nutrition practice
independent studies in nutrition and dietetics
a clinical placement
a community/public health placement
an honours research project in nutrition and dietetics for those accepted into the honours program.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Complete 110 days of practice placements – including individual case management, community public health placements and food service placements – to develop your skills to graduate-entry level dietetic practitioners who are competent against the Dietitians Australia National Competency Standards
Undertake professional placements in third and fourth year including patient interviews in a healthcare facility  and observational placements across metropolitan and rural South Australia.
Develop research skills across your studies to prepare you for independent study in your final year.
What you will need
You will be required to undergo criminal history record assessments and receive immunisations prior to work placements.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.30
97.70
Median rank to receive an offer
87.65
91.15
Lowest rank to receive an offer
68.75
78.10
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
14
27%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
26
50%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
5
10%
All students
52
100%
Get inspired
Gain industry experience at Flinders
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214381 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Northern Territory sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from the Northern Territory (NT). To be considered for the NT subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants who gain entry in this degree through the subquota will be registered with the Flinders NT and required to travel and reside in the Northern Territory for their final year clinical placements. The Flinders NT will subsidise travel expenses up to the equivalent of an economy class one-way fare. Contact the Flinders NT at
fnt.placements@flinders.edu.au
for further details prior to application.
Applicants must meet one or more of the following criteria to be eligible for consideration for a subquota place: must have their principal place of residence in the NT; or must have been resident in the NT for a minimum period of two years, within the last five years; or must be a recent graduate (within the last 5 years) or a current student of Charles Darwin University.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they meet the criteria for the NT subquota.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Human Nutrition
Bachelor of Human Nutrition/Bachelor of Exercise Science
(combined degree)
Bachelor of Health Sciences
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
