Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-health-science-vision-science-master-optometry


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Health Sciences (Vision Science) / Master of Optometry
Study Optometry at Flinders
Realise your vision as a registered optometrist.
Prepare yourself for a rewarding career in optometry in a high-quality learning environment. You will receive a grounding in the fundamentals of science with an emphasis on vision science, where you will study the visual system and factors that influence sight, in preparation for intensive study and clinical experience in optometry.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two chemistry, mathematics and physics or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
93.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244631
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
5 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,900
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two chemistry, mathematics and physics or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
7.0
Speaking
6.5
Writing
6.5
Listening
6.5
Reading
6.5
Pearson
overall
65
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
110760M
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
5 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244631 (Bedford Park)
Why study Optometry at Flinders
Taught by our lecturers in state-of-the-art facilities
Researchers involved in cutting-edge vision science research to make difference in day-to-day life
Features diverse topics across science, health, and optometry
Sub-quotas available for rural, remote and Indigenous applicants
Enjoy innovative learning such as case-based learning, self-reflection, peer learning, clinical simulation and video recording facilities
Your career
Potential occupations include:
optical consultant
optometrist
outreach optometry coordinator
paediatric optometrist
public health optometrist.
Professional recognition / accreditation
This degree is accredited by the Optometry Council of Australia and New Zealand. Graduates will be eligible to register as optometrists.
See all events
Events
Optometry:
Realise your vision
Help people protect and care for one our most precious gifts - eyesight.
Learn more about careers in Optometry
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
science topics in chemistry, human bioscience, and physics for health sciences
optometry and health topics in Indigenous health for health sciences, contemporary health issues in Australia, and introduction to vision science
topics in research and study skills and interpersonal and interprofessional communication.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
science and health topics in human anatomy, clinical skills, human immunology and infectious diseases, and human physiology
optometry topics in visual optics, ocular anatomy and physiology, and clinical optics and dispensing
topics in research and study skills and critical social analysis of health.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
science and health topics in clinical skills and principles of pharmacology and toxicology
optometry topics in disease of the eye and ocular pharmacology
topics in research and study skills and legal and ethical aspects of health care.
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
optometry topics in low vision and occupational optometry, management of eye disease, binocular vision and paediatric optometry, and contact lenses
topics in clinical research methods, research project in optometry, and transition to placement.
Fifth year
A typical fifth year may include:
placements in primary eye care, special populations, and rural and remote settings.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Complete diverse urban and rural clinical placements.
Nurture and enhance your interest in an expert area, such as contact lenses or paediatric optometry, through clinical placements and research topics.
What you will need
Prior to clinical placements in fourth and fifth year, you must:
be immunised in accordance with the relevant state or territory immunisation standards for healthcare workers in South Australia and any additional private provider requirements as needed
complete required Department for Communities and Social Inclusion screening checks.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through short-term study abroad programs, including short-term clinical placements.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.90
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
95.92
98.80
Lowest rank to receive an offer
81.00
87.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
24
30%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
48
61%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
<5
<5
All students
79
100%
Get inspired
Learn about Optometry at Flinders with Dr Jeremiah Lim.
Gain industry experience at Flinders
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244631 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can only apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications or through previous higher education study.
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Indigenous sub-quotas
An annual sub-quota of up to 5 places is available for Indigenous applicants. Such applicants are required to apply in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC confirming the applicant is of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island descent.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, another Flinders degree you might want to include in your list is the
Bachelor of Health Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
