Link: https://flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-performance-directing


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Performance (Directing)
Study Bachelor of Performance (Directing) at Flinders Drama Centre
Australia’s only specialist undergraduate directing course will help you take the next step in your performance career.
Leadership roles in theatre, film, television, digital media and emerging technologies demand mixture of creativity, project management, empathy, and discipline. Flinders’ Bachelor of Performance (Directing) will give you the practical skills and knowledge to help guide, inspire and lead others to bring your vision to life.
The Bachelor of Performance (Directing) will replace the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Drama) from 2024.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
Audition/interview.
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
245131
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,870
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
Audition/interview.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
113438H
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
245131 (Bedford Park)
Why study Directing at Flinders
Developed in close consultation with industry
Australia’s only named undergraduate directing degree
You’ll be taught by highly skilled creative leaders and work on real-world projects
You’ll study in small, collaborative groups alongside like-minded colleagues
Your studies will include practical training in acting and directing, developing a deeper understanding within your field.
Your career
Flinders graduates have the capacity to work professionally in many highly competitive commercial settings and impact the evolution of art form and community development, cultural leadership and change.
Flinders graduates include award-winning actors, animators, directors, cinematographers, editors, producers and writers. Your diverse range of skills and portfolio of creative achievements will make you attractive to a wide range of employers in the arts and communication industries internationally.
Distinguished alumni include Noni Hazelhurst, Benedict Andrews and Xavier Samuel.
Potential occupations include
Director
Playwright
Screen-writer
Stage Manager
Producer / Arts Administrator.
Potential employers include
Professional theatre companies, such as State Theatre Company South Australia
Commercial film studios and production houses
Television production companies and networks
Adelaide Festival and Adelaide Cabaret Festival
Streaming services.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Be introduced to the craft of bringing a script to life on stage, including performance and production skills.
Develop your critical understanding through study of the history of drama, by reading and workshopping significant scripts.
Engage in core techniques in acting, voice and movement to develop embodied knowledge about directing actors for stage and screen.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Engage in intensive classes in a bespoke learning environment, exploring rehearsal craft and interpretation.
Develop your critical understanding of the theories, movements and innovators in contemporary performance practice.
Direct several productions and performance projects in collaboration with actors and theatre-makers.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Continue to develop your specialist skills in directing.
Expand your understanding of creative practice as a method for critical thinking and research.
Engage with performers and creatives across stage and screen.
Optional Honours year
Subject to admission requirements:
Refine your skills with exciting opportunities for industry engagement.
Working as an ensemble with actors and theatre-makers, create a live and digital portfolio of industry standard performance work.
Deepen your knowledge and prepare for the possibility of post-graduate study through the creation of a practice-based artefact and exegesis.
View study program
Practical experience
Undertake rigorous practical training in the entertainment arts and gain hands-on experience in devising and performing in a variety of arenas.
Students will engage with leading South Australian performing arts organisations, such as State Theatre Company South Australia and Heesom Casting.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
97.55
98.75
Median rank to receive an offer
81.00
84.15
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.15
62.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
36
59%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
16
26%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
6
10%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
61
100%
Hear from our students
“
Studying Directing at Flinders University was invaluable to me. It provided me with fantastic skills, knowledge, and industry opportunities. I’m currently in a role as Associate Artist with State Theatre Company of South Australia, which simply wouldn’t have happened if I hadn’t trained as a professional director at Flinders.
Shannon Mackowski, Flinders Alumni.
”
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
245131 (Bedford Park)
Additional entry requirements
Applicants must also submit:
a supporting statement - responding to why they wish to study the course
a Curriculum Vitae - including details of Drama/Drama Studies subjects taken, previous tertiary education/professional or specialised training or other relevant experience (as well as referee details for confirmation)
a recent photograph/headshot of yourself
Applicants will also be required to
attend an audition
, and if applicable, a call-back audition.
Auditions, call-backs and interviews will be held at Flinders University, Bedford Park, South Australia in the Dance Studio of the Drama Centre. Auditions will be held between Monday 2 – Thursday 5 December 2024 with Acting call-backs being held on Friday 6 December, interviews held on Monday 9 December and Directing call-backs held on Tuesday 10 December 2024. Please note applicants will need to be available for all these activities to be considered for selection.
Download additional application requirements
Recommended audition monologues
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Performance (Acting)
Bachelor of Performance (Theatre-Making)
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Dance)
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Screen)
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and
additional entry requirements
)
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
Applicants are required to attend an audition
and submit a completed and signed audition application form.
Download additional application requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
The audition process
Find out what is involved in the audition process for the Bachelor of Performance (Directing), how to prepare and what alternative pathways you have should you not get into the degree the first time around.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
