Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-psychology-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Psychology (Honours)
Study Psychology at Flinders
Practise the science of the mind.
Follow your passions in this degree, with the ability to study a stream of electives alongside your core psychology topics. With excellent facilities including up to 20 research laboratories, and unique placement opportunities, you will graduate ready for work in clinical, educational, organisational or academic settings.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
90.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
214321
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $10,900
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.5
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Listening
6.0
Reading
6.0
Pearson
overall
58
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
017912J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $37,200
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
214321 (Bedford Park)
Why study Psychology at Flinders
Pursue the pathway to become a registered psychologist – this degree prepares you with the honours-level training required for progression towards registration
Become career ready with high-level training in professional, practical and academic areas
Study in applied, social, clinical, neurological and developmental psychology
Fully accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council
Your career
To register as a practising psychologist in Australia, you must complete an honours program in psychology and either two further years of supervised experience, or an approved qualification such as a Master of Psychology (Clinical).
Potential occupations include
Graduate data analyst
Assistant psychologist
Human sciences researcher
Learning and development graduate officer
Graduate trainee research analyst
Counsellor
Social Worker
Welfare, Recreation and Community Arts Workers
Aged and Disabled Carer
Welfare Support Workers
Occupational and Environmental Health Professionals
Health and Welfare Services Managers
Indigenous Health Workers
Human Resource managers and Professionals
Contract, Program and Project Administrators
Sports Coaches, Instructors and Officials
Social Professionals
General Managers
Advertising, Public Relations and Sales Managers and Professionals
Training and Development Professionals
ICT Business and Systems Analysts.
Professional accreditation/recognition
This degree is accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in psychology and research methods
a selection of topics in biology, business, computing, criminology, disability and rehabilitation, health, legal studies, philosophy, politics, sociology, and women’s studies
a selection of elective topics
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in research methods, personality and social psychology, cognition and learning, human development, and psychological assessment and measurement
a selection of elective topics
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in research methods, ethics and professional practice, and interviewing and counselling
a selection of psychology option topics including clinical psychology; advanced social psychology; applied cognitive psychology; lifespan development in cultural perspectives; mind, brain and behaviour; and forensic psychology
a selection of elective topics
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a psychology honours thesis
core topics in contemporary issues in psychology, and applications of psychology
seminars in research and practice in psychology
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake a professional placement in a psychological setting in third year.
Cover a range of assessment tests and clinical methodologies used by practising psychologists.
Access up to 20 research laboratories.
What you'll need
A police check may be required to complete work placements.
Study abroad
A series of international exchange links are available in countries including the USA and UK for one to two semesters of study. Gain another perspective, gather experience and immerse yourself in the culture of another country. It’ll be fundamental for your career and it will look great on your résumé too.
Have more questions about studying psychology? Watch our Psychology FAQ video
00:00 – Intro
00:25 – What kinds of benefits and careers can a Psychology degree lead to?
04:10 – How do I become a psychologist?
20:40 – If I enrol in the Bachelor od Psychological Science, how do I get into Honours?
24:08 – What GPA will I need to get into Honours?
27:34 – When does Honours start?
29:05 – What if I don't get into Honours?
33:40 – What electives can I study?
36:44 – What campus will I study at?
37:58 – Can I study 100% online?
40:02 – Can I study part-time?
42:25 – How much does it cost to study Psychology at Flinders?
43:49 – Get in touch
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.20
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
90.55
95.60
Lowest rank to receive an offer
81.55
90.15
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
10
13%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
37
48%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
21
27%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
7
9
International Students
<5
<5
All students
77
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
214321 (Bedford Park)
Inherent requirements for undergraduate psychology courses
Flinders University and the College of Education, Psychology and Social Work (CEPSW) strongly support the right of all people to pursue an undergraduate psychology course.
Inherent requirements are the essential components of a course or unit that demonstrate the abilities, knowledge and skills to achieve the core learning outcomes of the course or unit, while preserving the academic integrity of the University's learning, assessment and accreditation processes. The inherent requirements are the abilities, knowledge and skills needed to complete the course that must be met by all students.
Inherent requirements
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Psychological Science
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Inherent requirements for undergraduate psychology courses
Flinders University and the College of Education, Psychology and Social Work (CEPSW) strongly support the right of all people to pursue an undergraduate psychology course.
Inherent requirements are the essential components of a course or unit that demonstrate the abilities, knowledge and skills to achieve the core learning outcomes of the course or unit, while preserving the academic integrity of the University's learning, assessment and accreditation processes. The inherent requirements are the abilities, knowledge and skills needed to complete the course that must be met by all students.
Inherent requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 30 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
