Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-science-honours-biotechnology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Science (Honours) (Biotechnology)
Study Biotechnology at Flinders
Learn how living organisms can benefit people and the environment.
Be prepared to work as a professional in one of the most exciting areas of modern science by combining theory and specialised practical training in the life sciences with the study of related business, legal, ethical and social issues. The degree is underpinned by knowledge in entrepreneurial and corporate biotechnology.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
80.00
Guaranteed selection rank
85.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234541
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $8,944
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
074775G
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234541 (Bedford Park)
Why study Biotechnology at Flinders
Choose from a medical biotechnology or molecular biotechnology stream
Learn from practising researchers who are recognised internationally
Unique topics in foundations in microbiology and bioscience from the bench to the community – if you choose the molecular biotechnology stream
Understand science in the global market through commercialisation, entrepreneurship, financial management and business
Offers research project placements within the University, Flinders Medical Centre and the biotechnology industry
Your career
Biotechnology is changing the world around us and is considered the growth technology of the 21st Century – with job opportunities to match. It is an exciting field of science that combines aspects of medicine and biology. The possible applications are almost endless – from the diagnosis and treatment of human diseases and improved production of therapeutic agents to the development of enhanced crop species, transgenic organisms for new drugs, biosensors for environmental pollutants and improved waste treatment processes.
Potential occupations include:
biotechnologist
bioanalytical quality assurance associate
biodiscovery research officer
graduate research assistant
medical information associate.
Potential employers include:
Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics
Bionomics
Department of Industry, Innovation and Science
Murdoch Children’s Research Institute
Novozymes.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
choice of either the medical or molecular biotechnology stream
core topics in evolution of biological diversity, molecular basis of life, and introduction to biotechnology
introductory chemistry topics if you don’t have a background in chemistry
a topic in how your body works
your choice of a first-year science topic.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics (for both streams) in genetics, evolution and biodiversity; biochemistry; molecular biology; and the legal, ethical and social aspects of bioscience
topics in human physiology, and immunology and infectious diseases – if you choose the medical biotechnology stream
an elective topic.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in protein to proteome, DNA to genome, integrating molecular biosciences, and integrating biotechnology
a selection of topics from plant science to food biotechnology, medical biotechnology, industrial and pharmaceutical biotechnology, and environmental biotechnology
an elective topic.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a topic in how to take biotechnology discoveries to the marketplace
a professional biotechnology presentation in either medicine or biological science
an advanced biotechnology practice program in either medicine or biological sciences.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake research laboratory placements.
Participate in one-on-one mentoring sessions with industry and medical research leaders.
Choose to complete a six-week summer research project and/or a nine-month honours research project in industry, research organisations or appropriately accredited institutions nationally.
Compulsory topics in laboratories include practical exercises that require manual dexterity.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.85
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
88.20
92.78
Lowest rank to receive an offer
71.15
81.75
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
8
21%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
20
53%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
7
18%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
38
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
.
Other combined degree options
You can also combine this degree with any other bachelor degree within the College of Science and Engineering, subject to meeting entry requirements.
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234541 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Medical Science
Bachelor of Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
