Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-exercise-sport-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Exercise and Sport Science
Study Exercise and Sport Science at Flinders
Drive health and wellbeing.
Use evidence-based science as a means of preventative care or to maximise sporting performance and prevent injury in this fast growing sector.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
2024 selection rank
75.00
Guaranteed selection rank
80.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
234551
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $11,700
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
Knowledge of SACE stage two biology or equivalent is assumed.
IELTS
overall
6.5
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Listening
6.0
Reading
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
091862M
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
234551 (Bedford Park)
Why study Exercise and Sport Science at Flinders
Learn from exceptional lecturers in state-of-the-art facilities
Develop industry experience through invaluable placement opportunities
Qualify for a career in the evolving field of exercise and sport science
Study in the area where preventative health meets the fitness industry
Undertake unique topics in fundamentals of exercise and sport science, exercise prescription in motor control and learning, and advanced exercise and sport science.
Your career
Potential occupations include:
exercise or sport scientist
health and injury prevention advisor
aged care health and wellness
health and wellness coordinator
cardiac technician
sport and exercise science support officer
active living project officer.
Potential employers include:
hospitals
community health units
workplaces
gymnasiums
aged care facilities
disability service organisations
sporting clubs and associations
private health clinics
return to work providers
schools, universities and TAFE
sporting academies
not-for-profit or community organisations
Professional accreditation/recognition:
This program is accredited by Exercise and Sports Science Australia. Graduates are eligible to apply to be recognised as Accredited Exercise Physiologists and Accredited Exercise Scientists.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics such as an introduction to exercise and port science, human bioscience, nutrition, physical activity and health and research and study skills.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics such as exercise prescription in motor control and learning, human physiology, psychological perspectives of health, biomechanics and research and study skills.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
advanced topics in exercise and sport science, psychology of exercise, health and behaviour change, legal and ethical aspects of health care and research and study skills
140 hours of workplace experience.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake a compulsory 140-hour placement practicum, preparing you with interdisciplinary skills and knowledge of health, sport and exercise frameworks.
Get inspired
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
86.35
89.15
Median rank to receive an offer
77.80
85.30
Lowest rank to receive an offer
67.00
72.30
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
5
42%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
0
0
All students
12
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
234551 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Rural and remote sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from rural and remote areas. To be considered for the rural and remote subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they have lived in non-metropolitan areas of Australia (Remoteness Classifications RA2 to RA5) for at least 5 consecutive years, or 10 years cumulatively, from birth (i.e. during any period of their life). A Statutory Declaration form can be
downloaded here
(PDF 95KB).
Applicants can check their eligibility in accordance with the definition above using
the search tool
at the Remoteness Area (RA) Locator site. Filter your search using the ASGS Remoteness Areas (2016) layer.
Am I eligible?
Northern Territory sub-quotas
An annual subquota is available for applicants from the Northern Territory (NT). To be considered for the NT subquota applicants must apply to SATAC in the normal way.
Applicants who gain entry in this degree through the subquota will be registered with the Flinders NT and required to travel and reside in the Northern Territory for their final year clinical placements. The Flinders NT will subsidise travel expenses up to the equivalent of an economy class one-way fare. Contact the Flinders NT at
fnt.placements@flinders.edu.au
for further details prior to application.
Applicants must meet one or more of the following criteria to be eligible for consideration for a subquota place: must have their principal place of residence in the NT; or must have been resident in the NT for a minimum period of two years, within the last five years; or must be a recent graduate (within the last 5 years) or a current student of Charles Darwin University.
Applicants must also, within 10 working days after submitting the SATAC application, submit a Statutory Declaration to SATAC which confirms that they meet the criteria for the NT subquota.
Download a Statutory Declaration form

Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences (Life Sciences)
Bachelor of Medical Science
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional English language requirements
Applicants must show English language competence equivalent to a score of 6.5 on the International English Language Testing Systems (IELTS) or equivalent, unless subject to an exemptions as defined by Exercise and Sports Science Australia (ESSA).
Potential students must read the eligibility requirements for obtaining credentialing with ESSA following graduation, in terms of
ESSA's English Language Requirements
.
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
