Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-arts-game-production


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Arts (Game Production)
Study Game Production at Flinders
Build a career making games.
A hands-on degree with an emphasis on the creative aspects of gaming, in this degree you'll develop an in-depth knowledge of the games industry, the game design pipeline and the history, aesthetics and societal impact of games and gaming. Through the creation of assets and topics in game art, game narrative and game design, you'll develop the essential skills in game production using industry standard software and game engines.
You'll work alongside industry and collaborate with other students on real-world games and VFX projects, developing the highly sought after and transferrable skills that employers want. At the end of this degree, you'll be skilled in critical analysis and reflection of the game creation process, preparing you for a fulfilling career in this growing industry.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
Portfolio, CV and written statement.
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
N/A
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
284171
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $11,600
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
Portfolio, CV and written statement.
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
111463A
Delivery mode
In person:
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
284171 (City)
Why study Game Production at Flinders?
The gaming industry has seen huge growth since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, and is tipped to be worth $464.4 billion AUD by 2026*
Be taught by industry-leading, practising creative specialists who specialise in digital games and games production
Gain work experience as part of your study with built-in industry engagement opportunities
Build highly sought after transferrable, innovative and creative skills to enhance your career opportunities
Graduate with a portfolio of high quality creative work
Build your connections and networks before you graduate within the closely connected South Australian creative community
Study in state-of-the-art facilities, such as The Void – a motion-capture and virtual reality lab
Collaborate with other Creative Arts areas on major creative projects.
*PwC Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2022-26
^The Rookies Awards 2021
Your career
With the gaming industry tipped to be worth $464.4 billion AUD by 2026*, there is no better time than now to start your career in this growing industry. Take your first step into a career in game production and learn the latest skills to enhance your career prospects.
Potential occupations include:
Game artist
Game designer
Concept or character artist
Game writer
Game tester
Game critic/journalist/blogger
Independent game creator
3d modeller
3d rigger
Texture artist
Level designer
Game UI designer
Games focussed 2d and 3d animator
Game narrative designer
Environment artist
Game testing and QA
Potential employers include:
Game studios
Interactive design studios
Animation studios
Visualisation studios
freelance work and independent productions
*PwC Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2022-26
What you will study
On completion of this course, you will be able to:
Demonstrate conceptual, practical and technical skills to produce interactive assets at industry standard
Collaborate and communicate effectively within collaborative production and planning teams within game production pipelines
Demonstrate knowledge of industry standard software, games engines, and production practices
Articulate creative concepts, and apply critical reflection, judgement, and problem solving skills relating to creative practice
Effectively plan and adapt knowledge and skills to different phases of the game production process
Give, receive and apply constructive feedback on major creative projects
First year
A typical first year may include:
Introduction to the Creative Arts
Essential Multimedia
Introduction to Game Art Production
Fundamentals of Game Engine Implementation
Elective topic of your choice
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Digital Graphic Design
CGI
Digital Games
Interaction Design
Coding
Elective topic of your choice
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Multimedia Production
Game Creation Incubator
Creative Ventures
Personal Project
View study program (City)
Practical experience
This course equips students with the professional skills in asset production for interactive media, specifically games. Students will gain experience working with industry standard software packages and game engines and will have opportunities for collaboration on games and VFX projects.
A hands-on degree with an emphasis on the creative aspects of game production
develop an in-depth knowledge of the games industry, the game design pipeline and the history, aesthetics and societal impact of games and gaming.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
77.63
82.13
Lowest rank to receive an offer
51.20
60.05
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
58
23%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
28
11%
Work and life experience
23
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
94
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
36
15%
International Students
<5
<5
All students
247
100%
World #15
Visual Effects School
The Rookies Awards 2022
World #6
2D Animation School
The Rookies Awards 2022
Ranked in the World's Top 27
Creative Media & Entertainment Schools and Colleges
The Rookies Awards 2022
World #8
Concept Art & Illustration School
The Rookies Awards 2022
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and additional entry requirements)
3
Consider the admission pathways available to you.
4
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
5
Visit SATAC and submit your application.
Apply via SATAC
284171 (City)
Additional entry requirements
Applicants must also submit:
a supporting statement - responding to why they wish to study the course
a Curriculum Vitae - including details of publications, performance, work history, training or other experience they consider relevant to their application
a portfolio - examples of original work in film, video production, creative written work, photography, art work, graphic design and/or production management materials.
Download additional application requirements
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Media Arts
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and
additional entry requirements
)
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Additional entry requirements
Applicants are required to submit a written statement, CV and a show reel/portfolio, and submit a completed and signed coversheet.
Download additional application requirements
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Developing your portfolio for the Bachelor of Creative Arts (Game Production).
Learn more about portfolio requirements when applying for this degree.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
