Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-industries-music


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Music)
Study Music at Flinders
Build your professional identity within the music industry.
If you're passionate about music and are looking for a way to make it your career, then this is the degree for you. Suited to those who would like to gain key industry knowledge as well as business and marketing skills to be successful professionals in a competitive environment, this music degree is ideal for passionate musicians and budding industry professionals.
You'll learn from artist management professionals, music promoters and marketers, and label owners on how to succeed in the music industry. With job growth for Music Professionals in Australia predicted to grow 8.7% by 2026*, there is no better time than now to start your career in this growing field.
You'll gain transferrable, creative and innovative skills that will prepare you for a fulfilling career. You'll also have access to Flinders' state-of-the-art facilities, such as The Void, South Australia's largest motion-capture and virtual reality studio, and you'll have the opportunity to take part in the Student Alumni Mentoring Program, as well as work integrated learning and placement opportunities within our well-connected industry network.
*National Skills Commission, Job outlook to November 2026
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244611
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,800
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102679D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244611 (Bedford Park)
Why study Music at Flinders?
Jobs for Music Professionals in Australia expected to grow 8.7% by 2026*
Future-proof your career, in the area you're passionate about
Build a network within the closely connected South Australian creative community, long before you graduate
Collaborate and connect with students across Flinders' world-class creative arts and industries programs
Access The Void, South Australia's largest motion-capture and virtual production facility
Access editing suites, dedicated sound rooms and purpose-built production spaces
Learn from artist management professionals, music promotions and marketing, label owners, and representatives of recording studios
Gain work experience as part of your study
Take your study global with a semester exchange
Be mentored by award-winning staff or take part in the Student Alumni Mentoring Program
Build a professional portfolio
Be equipped with knowledge of the latest evidence-based practice.
*National Skills Commission, Job outlook to November 2026
Your career
Take your first step into a career in Music and learn the latest skills to enhance your career prospects. This degree is aimed at students with an interest in the music industry. This may include students who are already active independent artists or band members, who wish to learn more about the way the music industry works. This course is also for people who wish to work in promotion, marketing, and administrative roles in the music industry.
Potential occupations include:
Independent artist
Music promoter
Social media marketer
Record label manager
Recording studio manager
Music industry administration.
Potential employers include:
Record labels
Artist management
Promotions
Venue management
Arts administration
Tour management
Music festivals
Freelance
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
Introduction to the Creative Arts
Essential Multimedia
Sound and Music Production Techniques
Academic and Professional Communication
Digital and Social Media
Creative Music Entrepreneurship: Innovation and Identity
Elective
Second year
A typical second year may include:
Creative Cities
Event Design and Management
Sound and Music Production Techniques
Understanding the Music Industry
Creative Music Entrepreneurship: Contextual Awareness
Digital Storytelling
Electives
Third year
A typical third year may include:
Festivals and Their Place in the World
Cultural Leadership
Screen Production: Experimental Film and Music Video
Music Industry Project
Creative Ventures
Cultural Policy and the Arts
Elective
View study program
Practical experience
This course will allow students to develop their recording and performance skills, opportunities to develop and implement marketing strategies informed by the latest research, and create music videos.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.40
82.35
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.90
60.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
22
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
22
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
5
9%
International Students
5
9%
All students
58
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and additional entry requirements)
3
Consider the admission pathways available to you.
4
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
5
Visit SATAC and submit your application.
Apply via SATAC
244611 (Bedford Park)
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check the entry requirements.
(See fast facts at top of the page and
additional entry requirements
)
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online.
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
