Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-business


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Business
Innovate and drive the businesses of the future
In the fast-shifting and complex business and industry sector, an Honours program builds the competencies you need to confidently embark upon your future career. Honours develops research aptitude, opening the entry pathway to a higher degree by research or a PhD. The Honours program also facilitates the development of advanced knowledge in your area of specialisation and builds innovation and project management skills.
Successfully completing an Honours program demonstrates to future employers that you can take initiative, devise and implement your own project, write well, produce a substantive document, and work independently.
CRICOS code: 031353G
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Business at Flinders
Access excellent research facilities
Collaborate with industry partners
Work with expert supervisors with both national and international expertise
Develop transferable analytical, collaborative, communication and presentation skills
Engage in innovative research fields such as entrepreneurship, Industry 4.0, and the future of work
Your career
Business, government and non-government sectors alike, in both Australia and internationally, have long recognised the value of Honours qualified managers and leaders. Our Honours graduates enjoy a wide range of career opportunities where they utilise their research, analytical and critical thinking skills, their disciplinary expertise, and their ability to engage effectively with a broad range of audiences.
Potential occupations include:·
Business analyst
Account manager
Financial analyst
Marketing manager
Project manager
Sales representative/manager
Researcher
Academic
Potential employers include:·
Large and medium sized businesses
Governments and NGOs
Business start-ups
Consultancy firms
Universities
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
Your path toward a higher degree by research
Studying Honours will provide a solid grounding in research skills and enhanced knowledge to help you progress towards a higher degree by research. Use skills you will acquire in research, critical analysis and innovative problem solving and be a part of new discoveries that will shape our world.
Find out more
What you will study
The Honours program comprises 36 units of study that include your Honours thesis research project, topics in research design and methods that provide you with the required skills to complete your Honours research, as well as other topics specific to business studies.
View study program
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours Coordinator to discuss you project and arrange for supervision.
Search for an Honours coordinator
Advance your career through a collaborative research project with an industry partner
Gain experience with credible organisations
Deepen your technical expertise and contribute in a meaningful way to your discipline
Accelerate your career progress, and gain access to a variety of research relevant roles
Gain access to leading-edge facilities and equipment through Flinders and your industry partner
Engage your mind and follow your curiosity while undertaking research that will change lives and the world
Apply for an Industry-Targeted Honours
Honours Bursary for College of Business, Government and Law students
Six bursaries are available annually for business, criminology, or government Honours students, and are valued at $5,000 per annum. The College of Business, Government and Law Honours Bursaries are available to students enrolled in Honours in business, criminology or government in the College and are selected based on academic merit if there are more eligible applicants than bursaries available.
Learn more
Business, Government and Law Reconciliation Scholarship for Indigenous Research Projects
The College of Business, Government and Law has established the Indigenous Research Honours Scholarship to promote reconciliation by furthering understanding and recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories, knowledge and rights through related research projects.
This scholarship will be awarded to a student undertaking an Honours program at the College of Business, Government and Law whose Honours research project is in an area relevant to Indigenous scholarship.
Learn more
Business, Government and Law Honours Scholarship for Indigenous Students
The College of Business, Government and Law has established the Indigenous Research Honours Scholarship to promote reconciliation by furthering understanding and recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories, knowledge and rights through related research projects.
This scholarship will be awarded to an Indigenous student undertaking an Honours program at the College of Business, Government and Law.
Learn more
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
