Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-of-medical-science-laboratory-medicine


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine)
Study Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) at Flinders
Boldly face the local and global medical challenges of tomorrow
Our new four-year Laboratory Medicine course is an exciting specialisation that builds on the Bachelor of Medical Science degree and covers areas such as haematology and transfusion science, microbiology, genetics, immunology, virology, biochemistry, molecular biology and more. Students undertake two 13-week placements, equating to approximately 900 hours of laboratory placement in the fourth year of the degree, allowing them to apply their learning in a full-time capacity to a diagnostic pathology laboratory environment.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
85.00
Guaranteed selection rank
90.00
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244581
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,300
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
107262M
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
4 years full-time
Annual fee
2025: $41,400
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244581 (Bedford Park)
Why study Medical Science (Laboratory Medicine) at Flinders
Gain the scientific and theoretical understanding that underpins fundamental aspects of physiology and pathology
Gain a structured approach to the acquisition of medical laboratory skills and competencies through laboratory learning made possible by the physical location of the College within the Flinders Medical Centre and the co-operative industry partnerships between diagnostic pathology laboratories and Flinders University
Ability to apply pathology learning in a diagnostic laboratory setting
Gain an understanding of the professional roles and responsibilities of laboratory medical scientists and experience developing professional relationships
Be prepared for a range of careers within the medical sciences
Be prepared for entry into a variety of undergraduate courses leading to specific health professions
Your career
Graduates can gain employment in diverse areas of medical science within the diagnostic pathology industry. As a medical scientist specialising in laboratory medicine, you will handle patient samples and undertake laboratory testing to support and guide clinical decisions.
Potential occupations include:
medical scientist
medical laboratory technician
research and development scientist
medical representative
veterinary laboratories
Potential employers include:
diagnostic pathology laboratories
biomedical and biotechnology industries
academic research centres
government regulatory bodies
industry-funded organisations
pharmaceutical industry
international employment opportunities
Accreditation
This program has been accredited by the Australian Institute of Medical and Clinical Scientists (AIMS). The course meets requirements as specified in the SA Health Allied Health Professional Credentials, including Access Appointments Policy Directive, for the SA Pathology credentialing process.
Prepare for a bright future career with our step-by-step guide designed for students studying Medical Science (Laboratory).
Learn more
See all events
Events
Get inspired
I work as a Medical Scientist for SA Pathology in Adelaide. It’s a high pressure environment, tasked with our local response to the global SARS-CoV2 Pandemic.
Kylie Howard, Bachelor of Medical Science, Graduate 2012. Medical Scientist, Medical Scientist for SA Pathology, Adelaide
Read my story
I chose to study at Flinders because it offers a highly-regarded Bachelor of Medical Science degree with outstanding lecturers, researchers and academics in each field and topic.
Tasfia Khanam, Graduate, Bachelor of Medical Science.
Read my story
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
provides a foundation in the core medical science disciplines with an emphasis on the skills required to be medical scientists and an opportunity for student preferences through selection of an option topic
core topics in physiology, histology, biology, chemistry, and skills for medical scientists
a selection of option topics from a range of areas including chemistry, biostatistics, indigenous studies, public health, academic and professional communication, business and management.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
an introduction to the disciplines of medical science with a further opportunity for student preferences through selection of an option topic
core topics in biochemistry, human immunology and infectious diseases, molecular biology, virology, human molecular genetics and skills for medical scientists
a selection of option topics from a range of areas including integrated human physiology, public health, legal aspects of bioscience, indigenous studies, and interpersonal skills for professionals
Third year
A typical third year may include:
development of individual discipline knowledge across key areas of medical science
pathophysiology for medical science
advanced human molecular genetics and
biochemistry of human disease
foundations in mircobiology
Fourth Year
A typical fourth year may include:
a unique, valuable, and extensive opportunity for skill attainment through practical hands-on training where students transition into Work-Integrated Learning (WIL)
demonstrated application of theoretical knowledge during two semesters (total 26-weeks) of full-time clinical professional practice placement in registered diagnostic laboratories from a wide range of disciplines in a choice of SA metropolitan and regional laboratories provided
access to Laboratory placements in regional communities through
Rural and Remote Health SA
View study program
Practical experience
Practical hands-on experiential learning starting from first year is at the heart of our student-centred learning approach to support medical science learning. Students use cloud-based learning during physiology practicals, learn microscopy and visualise the human body up-close using real-life human tissue samples and high-definition digital specimens, and further engage in team-based learning with peers to understand and solve problems in advanced human molecular genetics.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas for a semester as long as the topics align with the course curriculum.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
99.95
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
95.55
98.25
Lowest rank to receive an offer
64.30
65.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
35
28%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
0
0
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
63
51%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
11
9%
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
<5
<5
International Students
8
7%
All students
123
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244581 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Medical Science (Vision Science)/
Master of Optometry
Bachelor of Nutrition and Dietetics
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science (Biotechnology)
Bachelor of Speech Pathology
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 24 Jul 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
