Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-information-technology-game-development-honours


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Information Technology (Game Development) (Honours)
Study Game Development at Flinders
Build a career in game development.
Develop the skills required to produce complex interactive systems used in gaming, preparing you to work in a range of industries, from entertainment to defence, health care to corporate, education and government, where the application of games and game technologies is key. Game development is an important tool for modelling real-life scenarios for training, problem solving and research in a variety of fields. Making games is a creative and technical art form, and this course will see you graduate with qualifications that are in demand across a broad range of industries.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
70.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Diploma or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224041
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Online: No
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $9,866
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
074830E
Delivery mode
In person:
– Tonsley
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $41,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224041 (Tonsley)
Why study Game Development at Flinders
Cover the tools and processes used in industry to design and build interactive experiences
Build a portfolio of work that demonstrates your capacity for planning, development and program design
Design games for purpose, work with external partners to create gaming experiences for rehabilitation, education or to inspire social change in players
Engage with multidiscipline teams from across the University in the design and construction of game experiences
Gain insight into the current trends in game research and their widespread use beyond simple entertainment
Accredited by the Australian Computer Society
Study in our $120 million science and technology precinct at Tonsley
Your career
Graduates with qualifications in game development are in demand across a broad range of industries like health, education, defence as well as the private sector. Your degree will prepare you to not only work in the game industry but also within simulation and interactive user centred design experiences across traditional computing and information technology domains.
Potential occupations include:
digital content coordinator
data scientist
system modeller
game play developer
game programmer
educational technology designer.
Potential employers include:
information technology services
educational institutions
health industry
defence industry
government bodies
private sector.
Professional accreditation/recognition
All our Bachelor of Information Technology and Bachelor of Computer Science degrees are accredited by the Australian Computer Society at the professional level.  Professional ICT courses accredited by the Australian Computer Society are recognised internationally under the Seoul Accord. Graduates meet the academic requirements for attaining chartered status as ICT professionals.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core topics in fundamentals of computing, computer programming, database design, network systems, simulation and game design, and professional skills.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
core topics in computer programming, database and conceptual modelling, computer game development, computer networks and operating systems, and interaction design
a selection of undergraduate computing elective topics.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
core topics in computer programming, interactive computer systems, project management for engineering and science, and digital games
a game development project and a selection of undergraduate computing elective topics or an information technology practicum.
Honours year
A typical honours year may include:
a major thesis project
a selection of computer, science, engineering and mathematics option topics.
View study program
Practical experience
The degree provides you with practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Undertake a major group project or a work placement.
Learn the practical skills to design and develop complex computer-based systems.
Develop hands-on experience in state-of-the art facilities through innovative and interactive learning.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.30
98.80
Median rank to receive an offer
77.10
84.70
Lowest rank to receive an offer
62.70
65.25
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
20
24%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
10
12%
Work and life experience
N/P
N/P
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
27
33%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
10
12%
International Students
8
10%
All students
83
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Combining your degree is a great way to pursue multiple passions and broaden your career opportunities. A combined degree gives you an advantage for employment in competitive and rapidly changing workplaces, both in Australia and overseas. For example, this degree could be combined with another in robotics, design and innovation or education.
Search all combined degree options
Northrop Grumman Scholarship
Considered a career in the Defence Industry?
The Northrop Grumman Scholarship, established in 2018, recognises and supports students enrolled in the
Bachelor of Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence
)
or the
Bachelor of Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence) (Honours)
, awarded on the basis of academic merit and demonstrated interest in pursuing a career in Computer Science of Defence Industries. Opening Date: 01-12-2021 Closing Date: 11-03-2022.
Find out more
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224041 (Tonsley)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous Higher Education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through Adult Entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Year 12 applicants are expected to obtain a selection rank of 80 or above (after the addition of any relevant bonus points) to be competitive for a place.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Computer Science
Bachelor of Information Technology
Bachelor of Science
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 27 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
