Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-business-marketing


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Business (Marketing)
Why study marketing?
New world, new thinking
Technology and innovation are transforming business today, creating new ways of working in new markets. Study marketing at Flinders and experience a future focused, industry driven specialisation combined with the skills and knowledge across all business management functions.  Flinders Business offers exceptional teaching in an exclusive, supporting university environment, with the flexibility to study online or on campus.
A Bachelor of Business (Marketing) (Online)
is also available.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
65.00
Guaranteed selection rank
70.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224371 (Bedford Park) 284111 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
                                                                
																
																	Refer to the
online option here
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $16,320
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
058294B
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $36,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224371 (Bedford Park)
284111 (City)
Why study Marketing at Flinders
Flinders is No.1 in SA in Business & Management for learner engagement, overall educational experience, skills development and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2021 (undergraduate), public SA-founded universities only)
Industry engaged - including application-based learning and industry mentors in marketing topics
New innovative core topics including ‘The Future of Work in a Digital Age’, ‘Digital Marketing and Analysis’ to equip graduates with the skills to thrive in marketing jobs of the future
High-quality facilities including a specially equipped trading room for group work and channel strategy development
Real-world experience and ready-established networks through work placements and projects
Flexible study options, full-time or part-time, online or on campus.
Cover the requirements to be eligible for registration as a Certified Practising Marketer with the Australian Marketing Institute
Your career
Your teaching and experience in placements and projects will ensure you will graduate future-ready for marketing jobs.
Potential occupations include:
Advertising manager
Brand manager
Business development manager
Fundraising and development officer
Digital marketer
International marketer
Market researcher
Marketing consultant
Marketing coordinator
Marketing manager
Media planner/campaign manager.
Potential employers include:
Government departments
Marketing firms
Media agency
Medium to small business
Multinational organisations
Not-for-profit organisations
Public relations firms
Publishing firms.
Professional accreditation/recognition
This degree is accredited by the Australian Marketing Institute. Gaining AMI accreditation represents one of several processes ensuring the degree provides graduates with the knowledge and skills required by employers to excel in a marketing-related job. Graduates of this degree are eligible to apply for registration as a Certified Marketing Professional.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
core marketing topic - marketing principles
foundational topics in business including quantitative methods, accounting for managers, management, people and organisations, economics for business, and law for business
innovation and enterprise topic
a selection of additional business topics and electives.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
marketing topics including consumer behaviour, branding, advertising and market research
the choice from a wide range of business topics or electives.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
exposure to advanced marketing topics including marketing planning and strategy, digital marketing and analysis, and a selection of broad ranging marketing topics including an industry placement
future focused topic on industry 4.0 and the future of work in the digital age
a selection of additional business topics and electives.
View study program
View study program (City)
Practical experience
The degree provides you with industry insights and practical experience that prepares you for the workforce.
Participate in work-integrated learning through the Flinders industry placement program
Immerse yourself in live industry projects with small and medium size businesses across multiple topics.
Study abroad
Flinders has a series of international exchange links that give you a chance to study part of your degree overseas, from a short-term three-week study tour to a yearlong exchange at any one of 80 partner universities around the world.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
96.30
98.80
Median rank to receive an offer
73.47
76.58
Lowest rank to receive an offer
59.15
65.10
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
26
35%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
18
24%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
16
21%
International Students
7
9%
All students
75
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Pursue multiple passions with a combined degree
Bachelor of Psychological Science/Bachelor of Business (Marketing)
The combined Bachelor of Psychological Science/Bachelor of Business (Marketing) provides the opportunity to link the psychology of marketing with consumer buying behaviour. It teaches you to market to people effectively by understanding how psychology influences their decisions, and is one of only a few programs that allow you to delve into consumer buying behaviour, rational and irrational decision-making processes, impulse buying behaviour, heuristic decision-making and other frameworks with this interdisciplinary overlap. This combined degree meets the accreditation requirements of the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council.
Other combined degree options
Expand your career options by combining this degree with one of the following:
Bachelor of Accounting
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Finance
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice
Bachelor of Laws and Legal Practice (Honours)
Bachelor of Psychological Science
Bachelor of Sport, Health and Physical Activity
Bachelor of Tourism and Events
Search all combined degree options
Apply now
Apply now
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224371 (Bedford Park)
284111 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Arts
.
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
