Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-psychology


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Psychology (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year in Psychology
Study the science of the mind.
An Honours degree in psychology is the next step towards becoming a practicing psychologist. Further your understanding of the human mind as you specialise in applied, social, clinical, neurological or developmental psychology. You will undertake an independent research thesis under the supervision of international-renowned psychologists and researchers.
Flinders offers the following One Year Honours in Psychology, accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council:
Bachelor of Psychological Science (Honours)*
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Honours)**
Bachelor of Arts (Honours)*** - Psychology major only.
* CRICOS code: 080522M
** CRICOS code: 031343J
*** CRICOS code: 011854G
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Psychology at Flinders
Next step toward registration as a practicing psychologist in Australia
Fully accredited course by the Australian Psychological Accreditation Council
Undertake your thesis while also taking complementary studies in contemporary issues in psychology and research skills
Enhance critical analysis, creative solutions and research presentation skills
Join psychology professionals who are contributing to above world standard research (Excellence in Research for Australia)
Make industry connections for your career
Your career
Psychology has a very strong expected future growth rate, with 24,000 job openings or new jobs created in the next five years (Job Outlook 2018). To practice as a registered psychologist, you need a bachelor degree, Honours and postgraduate qualifications. As a registered psychologist or with psychology Honours, employment is available with a large range of employers.
Potential occupations include:
graduate data analyst
assistant psychologist
human sciences researcher
learning and development graduate officer
graduate trainee research analyst
psychologist (with further postgraduate qualifications).
Potential employers include:
community health providers
consulting firms
government agencies
hospitals
market research companies
private practice
research centres
rehabilitation facilities.
Professional accreditation / recognition
This degree is accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council.
What you will study
You will undertake core topics in contemporary issues in psychology, applications of psychology and research and practice. Your study will also consist of an honours thesis.
View study program
Entry requirements
Applicants must have completed an accredited three year bachelor degree in Psychology or a bachelor degree with an accredited Psychology major, normally within the last ten years.
Applicants are also required to have:
Passed a minimum of 18 units (0.5 FTE) of second year Psychology topics and 18 units (0.5 FTE) of third year Psychology topics; and
Achieved a Flinders equivalent Grade Point Average (GPA) of more than 5.25 out of 7 for second and third year Psychology topics. A Flinders GPA of 5.25 is equivalent to 75% Credit and 25% Distinction grades.
Passed PSYC3007 Research Methods 3 or its third year level equivalent at another university.
Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander Sub-Quota
An annual sub‐quota is available for Indigenous applicants. Applicants that wish to be considered under this sub‐quota must apply in the normal way and are required to submit a Statutory Declaration confirming they are of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent.
Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander Sub-quota Statutory Declaration
Entry requirements
Applicants must have completed an accredited three year bachelor degree in Psychology or an accredited bachelor degree with a Psychology major, normally within the last ten years.
Applicants are also required to have:
Passed a minimum of 18 units (0.5 FTE) of second year Psychology topics and 18 units (0.5 FTE) of third year Psychology topics
Achieved a Grade Point Average (GPA) of more than 5.25 out of 7 for second and third year Psychology topics. A Flinders GPA of 5.25 is equivalent to 75% Credit and 25% Distinction grades.
PSYC3007 Research Methods 3 or its third year level equivalent at another university.
English language requirements
How to Apply
Applications are submitted directly to the University.
Application timeline
2024 for 2025 entry
Monday 9 September
Applications for One Years Honours in Psychology open 9.00am (ACST)
Friday 8 November
Applications close 11.59pm (ACST)
Friday 6 December
Deadline for submission of Official Academic Transcripts with Semester 2, 2024 results for those completing their Psychology bachelor’s degree at end of 2024.
From mid-December 2024 to February 2025
Applicants notified of outcome of their application. Offers may be made right up to the commencement of the course to fill places available.
Tuesday 31 December
Deadline for submission of Official Academic Transcripts for successful applicants in final year of eligible Psychology degree showing successful completion.
Monday 10 February 2025
Teaching commences with an Honours meeting (attendance is compulsory). Students must be available on this date to attend Supervisor Topic Presentations and Interviews to determine their thesis supervisor.
1
Read through our Psychology one year honours application guide.
The guide will assist you to determine if you meet the eligibility criteria to apply for Honours at Flinders, and includes details of the application and selection process including what supporting documentation you need to provide.
One-Year Honours Psychology Application Guide
2
Submit your application via the online application system.
Applicants who are studying or have completed their Bachelor degree at a university other than Flinders University will need to provide their official academic transcript with their application.
Applications open Monday 9 September.
Apply
Apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
Inherent requirements for undergraduate psychology courses
Flinders University and the College of Education, Psychology and Social Work (CEPSW) strongly support the right of all people to pursue an undergraduate psychology course.
Inherent requirements are the essential components of a course or unit that demonstrate the abilities, knowledge and skills to achieve the core learning outcomes of the course or unit, while preserving the academic integrity of the University's learning, assessment and accreditation processes. The inherent requirements are the abilities, knowledge and skills needed to complete the course that must be met by all students.
Inherent requirements
Additional entry requirements
Overseas Qualification Assessment
Applicants who are graduates with Psychology degrees from non-Australian universities must have their qualifications assessed by the Australian Psychological Society (APS) for equivalence to an Australian program of study prior to submitting their application. Information about the process for obtaining this assessment can be found on the
APS website
.
Academic Transcripts
Applicants with studies at institutions other than Flinders University, must upload a certified copy or original official academic transcript for all qualifications relevant to their application at the time of applying. This includes applicants with current enrolment relevant to their application. The transcripts should show results in all subjects, including grades for all second and third year Psychology subjects.
If any of the academic transcripts are in a language other than English, applicants must submit copies of both the original documents and full translations. Transcript translations must show results for all subjects undertaken. All translations must be certified by an independent accredited translator. It is an applicant’s responsibility to comply with any requests to provide further documentation, either in the original language or translated into English.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 29 Aug 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
