Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-disability-developmental-education


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Disability and Developmental Education
Study Disability and Developmental Education at Flinders
Improve lives and realise potential.
Develop the knowledge and skills to shape an inclusive society.
Enjoy a highly sought-after qualification in a growing sector as a Developmental Educator and Positive Behaviour Support Practitioner. Grounded in a human rights approach, graduates will be equipped to provide evidence-based services and interventions, including therapeutic and positive behaviour supports for children and adults with diverse needs. Career options are endless: work with multi-disciplinary teams in government or private organisations, set up your own private practice, register with the NDIS, or practice in early intervention, community settings, and aged care.
Graduates of this four-year degree are eligible for full membership with the DEAI to practice as a Developmental Educator.
A
Bachelor of Disability and Developmental Education (Online)
is also available.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
224531 (Bedford Park) 284271 (City)
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Online: No
                                                                
																
																	Refer to the
online option here
Duration
4 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $14,000
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
058482J
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
– City
Duration
4 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $44,500
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
224531 (Bedford Park)
284271 (City)
Why study Disability and Developmental Education at Flinders
This course teaches you specialist skills to develop and implement holistic and person-centred therapeutic and positive behavioural supports for people with disability
This degree is grounded in inclusive, human rights based approaches with contributions from disability studies, sociology, psychology, speech pathology and health
Take on practical experience that prepares you for the work force, including four placements that build your skills and knowledge for a career as a Developmental Educator and Positive Behaviour Support Practitioner
Study anywhere in Australia, with all topics available online.
Take advantage of interstate and overseas placement opportunities from your second year
Prepare for a career that helps make a difference in people’s lives
Your career
Lead teams or work as an individual practitioner as a Developmental Educator and Behaviour Support Practitioner in the disability and community services sectors.
Potential occupations include:
developmental educator
(see the
DEAI
for more information)
positive behaviour support practitioner
NDIS support coordinator
case manager
program coordinator
disability employment consultant.
Potential employers include:
disability support services
government sector/NDIS
non-government agencies
private sector
self-employment.
Professional accreditation/recognition
The four-year Bachelor of Disability and Developmental Education (BDDE) is accredited by the Developmental Educators Australia Inc (DEAI), and graduates can apply for full membership with the DEAI to practice as a development educator and positive behaviour support practitioner.
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
topics which build foundation skills, understanding how systems work, introduction to a range of contexts, and making connections between theory and practice
core topics include perspectives on disability, introduction to disability and neurodiversity, research and study skills 1, disability across the life course, introduction to communication diversity and support needs, critical issues in disability practice, and the disability landscape.
option topic where students can select from a range of topics across education, health, innovation, government, sociology, women's studies, and psychology.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
topics which focus on building skills as a competent practitioner, and applying foundation skills in a professional context
core topics include practicum 1 (100 hour placement), introduction to principles of learning and instruction, employment and disability, research and study skills 2, advocacy and working in partnership, instructional strategies, professional ethics, and disability: health and wellbeing.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
topics which consolidate practice skills, expose students to policy and leadership ideas, and build identity as a disability professional
core topics include introduction to positive behaviour support, introduction to counselling skills, entrepreneurship and small business, research and study skills 3, augmentative and alternative communication, case management and support coordination, building community capacity, and practicum 2 (150 hour placement).
Fourth year
A typical fourth year may include:
topics which refine key developmental educator skills in professional practice and leadership, including assessment and report writing and interventions including therapeutic and positive behaviour supports for children and adults
core topics include delivering therapeutic supports, early intervention, practicum specialisation (150 hour placement) PBS: assessment and functional analysis, PBS: implementation, PBS: practicum and mentoring (including 100 hour placement), and a final capstone for professional DE practice and leadership.
View study program
View study program (City)
Students commencing in July (mid-year) will take 4.5 years to complete the degree full-time, due to pre-requisite requirements. March and July start date study plans are
available here
.
Students may be eligible for credit for the 1st year option topic if they have completed (within the past 10 years) a Certificate IV, Diploma or topic/subject in another University course that meets the learning outcomes of this course.
Apply for credit transfer
Practical experience
This course equips you with work-integrated knowledge and skills required for practice as a Developmental Educator and Positive Behaviour Support Practitioner. Four practicums are included (one in second year, one in third year, and two in fourth year), with placements available across a number of settings including early intervention, schools, disability and community services, and aged care.
Opportunities for interstate and overseas placements are available.
What you will need
Before commencing a placement, you will need to undertake some essential pre-placement checks.
View further information about these requirements
.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas through:
One semester study exchange with international partners.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
86.70
89.25
Median rank to receive an offer
68.55
72.25
Lowest rank to receive an offer
60.35
63.00
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
17
27%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
14
22%
Work and life experience
14
22%
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
11
17%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
N/P
N/P
International Students
<5
<5
All students
63
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
Get inspired
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
224531 (Bedford Park)
284271 (City)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
Find the entry path that’s right for you.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include on your list are:
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Psychological Science
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic program pathways
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 01 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
