Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/bachelor-creative-industries-festivals-arts-production


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Creative Industries (Festivals and Arts Production)
Study Creative Industries (Festivals and Arts Production) at Flinders
Get ready to lead the future of the Arts.
If you’re a ‘big picture’ thinker, interested in the Creative Industries and want to work in the Festivals and Arts sector, this is the degree for you. You’ll develop the business planning, entrepreneurial and marketing skills to thrive in this fast-paced industry, preparing you for leadership in an ever-changing landscape.
In this flexible degree you’ll choose your own adventure with topics available from across the creative industries and arts, allowing you to create your own unique path as an Arts leader. Taught by practising experts with close links to industry, you’ll be part of an established creative community from day one and graduate with a portfolio of real-world experience.
What you will study

Download brochure

Download brochure

How to apply

Enquire
Fast facts
Course facts at a glance.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
2024 selection rank
60.00
Guaranteed selection rank
65.00
TAFElink
Certificate IV or above
Adjustment factors available
Yes
SATAC code
244461
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Online: No
Duration
3 years full-time
(or part-time equivalent)
Deferrable: Yes
Annual indicative fee
2024: $13,600
How are these fees calculated?
Start dates
– March
– July
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Student and ATAR profile

Save course
Prerequisites
None
Assumed knowledge
None
IELTS
overall
6.0
Speaking
6.0
Writing
6.0
Pearson
overall
50
Information about English language requirements
CRICOS code
102679D
Delivery mode
In person:
– Bedford Park
Duration
3 years full-time
Deferrable: Yes
Annual fee
2025: $33,800
Information about these fees
Start dates
– March
– July
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Entry requirements by country

Save course
Apply via SATAC
244461 (Bedford Park)
Why study Creative Industries (Festivals and Arts Production) at Flinders
No.1 in SA in Creative Arts for learner engagement, skills development, student support and teaching quality (The Good Universities Guide 2023 (undergraduate), public SA-founded universities only)
Build your degree based on your unique interests from across the Creative Arts, Industries or Humanities and Social Sciences. No two Bachelor of Creative Industries degrees are the same.
Flinders has a long legacy of excellence in the creative arts, with
well-known alumni
working all over the world.
You will benefit from our strong connections to industry that will provide you with practical skills and real-world projects. You’ll also learn from leading practitioners in Festivals and Cultural Arts such as
Dr Tully Barnett
who is investigating ways of valuing arts and culture beyond econometrics and digitisation as a cultural practice, and
Christie Anthoney
, an Adelaide Arts leader who is currently Head of Public Affairs at the Adelaide Festival Centre.
South Australia is the Festival State! You’ll have the opportunity to experience some of the best Arts festivals in the world, such as the Adelaide Fringe, Adelaide Film Festival, SALA, and more.
Connect with industry through our networks of global industry professionals, events and Work Integrated Learning.
You’ll be at the forefront of cutting-edge, modern education, taking topics centred on climate change and sustainability and the Arts’ role within that, and Indigenous Australia topics taught by leading teachers and researchers.
Learn in state-of-the-art facilities such as the Flinders University Museum of Arts (FUMA), South Australia’s largest motion capture and virtual production facility – The Void, and the Foley sound capture room.
Learn to produce your own arts events in collaboration with multi-disciplinary creative teams, industry stakeholders and community organisations.
Learn to work adaptively with new media and disruptive technologies in a fast-changing, technologically driven industry environment.
Your career
This degree will help you develop your potential as a leader in the creative and cultural industries, with a focus on large-scale festivals and Arts events. You’ll gain career-ready skills that will help you plan, develop, and market your own arts events, or work collaboratively as part of an interdisciplinary arts team in a range of roles and settings.
Potential occupations include:
artistic director
creative director
festival director
producer
event manager
logistics manager
grant administrator
arts policy and programs manager
Marketing and advertising manager
Content creator.
Potential employers include:
festivals
industry peak bodies
local and state government organisations
youth arts organisations
freelance work and independent productions.
“
I can see myself using the knowledge and skills I’ve been taught throughout my degree in a whole bunch of ways.
From all of the things I didn’t expect to be learning, plus all the areas that I am really excited about. I think the industry itself is so broad and there are so many different roles and jobs available that I can tailor what I’ve been studying to where I expect to be going.
Abbey Paton, Bachelor of Creative Industries (Festivals and Arts Production)
”
What you will study
First year
A typical first year may include:
In your first year you’ll get an introduction to the creative industries, how they work and their role in society.
You’ll also build your knowledge base in the fundamental skills of event planning, marketing, innovation and strategic thinking to set you up for success in your degree.
Second year
A typical second year may include:
In your second year you’ll learn all about the era of creative cities (from historic Parisian streets to modern Adelaide Laneways), you’ll build on your knowledge in tourism, events and activations, innovation and theory and practice.
You’ll also choose from a range of Indigenous topics which are taught by award-winning academics in the creative arts.
Third year
A typical third year may include:
In your third year you’ll learn about cultural leadership, sustainability in the Arts, festivals and their place in the world, and cultural policy in the Arts.
You’ll apply your skills and knowledge in the design and delivery of events, working independently and collaboratively with a multidisciplinary creative team to pitch, deliver and lead your own unique project while simultaneously engaging with the arts industry.
View study program
Practical experience
Practical, industry-focussed experience is woven throughout this degree. You’ll have the real-world experience of producing a performance event, and the opportunity to work in collaboration with artists, industry stakeholders and community organisations and engage with education, community and industry stakeholders.
There are many opportunities for practical projects, but the requirements of these will depend on the individual.
Study abroad
There are opportunities to take your studies overseas with a student exchange program.
ATAR and Student Profile Information
ATAR and Selection Rank profile
The table below shows ATAR and Selection Rank data for students offered a place wholly or partly on the basis of ATAR commencing in Semester 1, 2024. It is limited to applicants that have recently completed secondary education (within the last two years). Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – less than 5 ATAR based offers made
N/A – This course uses additional selection criteria and therefore Selection Rank is not published
ATAR-based offers only across all offer rounds
ATAR - Excluding adjustment factors
Selection Rank - ATAR plus any adjustment factors
Highest rank to receive an offer
98.10
99.95
Median rank to receive an offer
79.40
82.35
Lowest rank to receive an offer
53.90
60.85
Student Profile
The table below gives an indication of the likely peer cohort for new students in this course. It provides data on students who commenced study in this course in Semester 1, 2024 including those admitted through all offer rounds and international students studying in Australia. Applicant background groupings are based on educational background, not basis of admission. Data may reflect multiple courses available within a suite of courses.
Notes:
<5 – the number of students is less than 5
N/P – Not published: the number is hidden to prevent calculation of numbers in cells with less than 5 students
Applicant background (Semester 1, 2024)
Number of students
Percentage of all students
Higher education study (includes a bridging or enabling course)
22
38%
Vocational education and training (VET) study
<5
<5
Work and life experience
<5
<5
Recent secondary education - Admitted solely on the basis of ATAR (regardless of whether this includes the consideration of adjustment factors such as equity or subject bonus points)
22
38%
Recent secondary education - Admitted where both ATAR and additional criteria were considered (e.g. portfolio, audition, extra test)
0
0
Recent secondary education - Admitted on the basis of other criteria only and ATAR was not a factor (e.g. special consideration pathways)
5
9%
International Students
5
9%
All students
58
100%
Add Innovation and Enterprise
to your degree
At Flinders University, we recognise that careers are evolving and the workplace of the future will look very different from today.
Whatever undergraduate course you are studying at Flinders, you can add innovation and enterprise electives to your degree to gain new, adaptable and transferrable skills that will equip you for the careers of tomorrow.
Learn More
How to apply
1
Choose your preferred course.
2
Check the entry requirements and
admission pathways
available to you.
3
Choose other courses to include in your preferences.
4
Visit SATAC and submit your application online.
Apply via SATAC
244461 (Bedford Park)
Apply to transfer internally
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Admission pathways
Applicants can apply for this course using Year 12 qualifications, previous higher education study, TAFE/VET qualifications, or through adult entry (STAT/Foundation Studies/tertiary preparation course).
For applicants using their SACE (Year 12) results (or equivalent), entry is subject to achieving a minimum selection rank of 60.
Explore our pathways
Choosing your preferences
When choosing your preferences through SATAC, other Flinders degrees you might want to include in your list are:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Media and Communication
Bachelor of Tourism and Events
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
English language pathways
If you don’t meet our English language entry requirements and need to improve your English language proficiency, you can do so through Flinders University Academy – or our approved English Language Instruction Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS) providers.
This means that you can attend the required English language tuition at approved ELICOS providers and gain direct entry into university without an IELTS or TOEFL test.
Find out more
Academic pathway programs
If you don’t meet our academic entry requirements, you can still gain entry to Flinders University through Flinders University Academy. With a range of diplomas, foundation and English language courses, students can find a direct pathway into the destination degree of their choice.
Find out more
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 26 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
