Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/honours-bachelor-medical-science


Study
Courses
Bachelor of Medical Science (Honours) 1 year
Undertake an Honours year
Investigate the science of the human body.
An Honours year is a challenging yet rewarding program of study to extend your intellectual and practical experience in your chosen science discipline. Learn from renowned researchers in a range of sciences including biochemistry, biotechnology, microbiology, molecular biology, neuroscience and more. You will complete an independent research project, learn new skills and help bring important scientific ideas into reality.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake an Honours year in Medical Science at Flinders?
Be a part of  research that is making a difference.
Access state-of-the-art research facilities and be a part of the future of medical research in our new
Health and Medical Research Building
, opening 2024.
Choose from a wide range of projects in
Molecular Biosciences
,
Healthy Communities
and
Clinical Translation
.
Be immersed in a strong clinical and research environment.
Cutting edge laboratory techniques and experiments that prepare you for work as a medical scientist across the globe.
Eligibility to apply, on graduation, for a sub-quota of up to 25 places in Flinders’ Doctor of Medicine (domestic students only).
Eligibility to apply on completion to the Flinders' Doctor of Medicine, under the reserved sub-quota (domestic students only).
Experience that is applicable for HDR applications.
Be supported by the
Flinders Health and Medical Research Institute's Research Education Development Hub (FHMRI-RED)
.
Your career
The degree provides options for students interested in a wide range of careers in the medical and health sciences. Graduates may find employment in such fields as medical science, pharmaceutical research, biomedical organisations, diagnostic laboratories, health administration, and health planning and policy.
Potential occupations include:
Bone densitometry technician
Medical laboratory technician
Medical scientist
Research and development scientist
Laboratory medical scientist
Laboratory assistant
Pathology assistant
Potential employers include:
Universities and research institutes
Government
Industry-funded organisations
Pharmaceutical industry
Government regulatory bodies
Biomedical companies
Diagnostic laboratories
What you will study
You can complete your Honours year studies in a range of science disciplines. Depending on your area of interest, expand your advanced understanding and gain valuable skills in reviewing literature, planning and executing experiments, time management, organisational skills and science communication and presentations.
Areas of specialisation:
Biochemistry
Biotechnology
Microbiology
Molecular biology
Neuroscience
Cancer biology
Cardiovascular research
Opthalmology
Precision Dosing
Genetics
View study program
Entry requirements
Entry into one-year Honours is highly competitive. If you have demonstrated academic excellence (a Grade Point Average of 5 or above) during your bachelor degree you are invited to apply for Honours.
Whether you’re invited to apply, or want to apply, you will need to contact the Honours coordinator in your discipline to discuss your project and arrange for supervision. The Honours coordinator can be contacted by emailing
cmph.enquiries@flinders.edu.au
.
Enquire now
FHMRI Researcher Education
and Development (fhmri-RED)
FHMRI-RED is here to help you grow your research skills and networks to maximise your research outcomes and real-world impact.
Find out more
Projects for Honours Candidates
Apply
When to apply
Applications for 2025 are now open.
How to apply
Submit your application directly to Flinders University through the online application system.
If you have never studied at or made an application to Flinders University
, you can register and submit your application for admission to a 1-year Honours course using the
eApplication portal
. You will receive two emails once your application is completed: confirmation of application submission; and a second email with your student ID. Note, it may take 1-4 hours for your student ID to be created.
If you have studied at Flinders University within the last 12 months
you can submit your application for admission to a one-year Honours course via the
Student System
. You can apply for admission by selecting the
My Applications
tab at the top of the page, and searching for your course.
If you studied at Flinders University more than 12 months ago
you will need to
reactivate your FAN
first. With an active FAN you will then be able to submit your application for admission via the
Student System
as advised above.
Enquire
For all course enquiries phone, email or complete the enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Enquire
If you have a question about how to apply, please review our
Frequently Asked Questions
before submitting an enquiry.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 05 Nov 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
