Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/postgraduate-digital-health-management


Study
Courses
Digital Health Management
Overview
This course will provide you with the skills to introduce and manage digital strategies in health care organisations.
If you have health leadership, career growth or digital upskilling goals, a Flinders Graduate Certificate in Digital Health Management is for you.  You’ll gain tech-first skills in leadership and management in a health context and learn how to assess and implement virtual care models and emerging digital health technologies, with a curriculum co-created with industry.
Who is this course for?
Experienced health professionals looking to upgrade their skills for the digital and virtual world.
Leaders wanting to embark on digital transformation within their healthcare organisation.
New professionals wanting to understand the latest trends in digital and virtual health.
Health professionals wanting to transition into digital and virtual health.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Courses
Graduate Certificate in Digital Health Management
Duration:
1 years
Delivery mode:
In Person
Online
Location:
City
Availability:
Part-time
Start dates:
March
July
SATAC code:
2GC911 (Full fee paying)
Annual indicative fees (2025):
$10,260 (Full fee paying)
Further information on fees listed
Apply via SATAC
2GC911
The postgraduate program is not available to international students.
Continue to
explore course options
at Flinders University or send us an enquiry.
What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

Why study Digital Health Management at Flinders?
This course provides participants with key digital health management skills for future health workplaces.
It builds capabilities in analytical and problem-solving skills in digital health, development and management of digital health solutions, and strategic digital transformation.
Gain exposure to digital transformation and the benefits of Big Data and the IoT landscape in health.
The course is offered in person in the Adelaide CBD with an average of 8 hours a week, part-time.
Participants finish with a Graduate Certificate, which provides a pathway into the
Master of Health Administration
.
Your career
Upskill in a growing field. The Graduate Certificate in Digital Health Management opens doors to a growing health field, and can be your way to shape the future of healthcare with innovative digital solutions.
Potential occupations include:
digital health clinical specialist
digital health consultant
digital health director
digital health project manager
digital health product support lead.
Potential employers include:
public and private hospitals
healthcare technology companies
aged care organisations
community health organisations
private medical practices
for purpose sector.
Professional recognition/accreditation
Our programs are recognised by the Australasian Institute of Digital Health and the Australasian College of Health Service Management for continuing professional development (CPD) points eligibility.
Digital Health jobs are in high demand
Digital Health Consultant
$97k - $105k per year
Chief Digital Officer – Digital Health
$250k per year
Digital Health Business Manager
$125k - $140k per year
Source: seek.com.au
What you will study
Digital Health
In semester one you will study trends in managing digital health, digital health technologies and tools, and how to introduce artificial intelligence, the internet of things (IoT), digital safety and cybersecurity into the health and aged care sectors.
Virtual Health, Innovation and Co-Design
In semester one you will learn about virtual hospitals, virtual assessments and how to co-design and manage these virtual models of care into health and aged care settings.
Health Informatics
In semester two you will study the better management of information, electronically in healthcare and learn best practice strategies in solving business and clinical issues using informatics tools, in the primary, secondary and tertiary care sectors.
Strategic Management
In semester two you will learn strategic thinking and management, and how to align strategic leadership, corporate governance, and transformational change strategies in a digital health context.
View study program
Graduate Certificate in Digital Health Management
Learn with industry experts
Associate Professor Angie Shafei, MD DBA
Director of Healthcare Management Programs, College of Business, Government and Law
Angie is an interdisciplinary researcher, Clinical Pathologist and the Director of the Healthcare Management Programs at Flinders University. She is co-founder of InnovateInn, a Technology start-up specializing in Medtech and AgriTech and has over 25 years of experience in the medical, education, and accreditation sectors in Australia, Singapore, China, North Africa and the Gulf. A research commercialization expert with hands-on experience in innovation and transformation in health, who uses her unique interdisciplinary expertise to engage in translational research in co-design, virtual health, telehealth, patient journey mapping, process mining, healthcare service quality and patient-centred health service models.
Associate Professor Christine Dennis
Previous Deputy Dean Rural and Remote Health SA in the College of Medicine and Public Health
Christine has held senior executive roles in government and health services in South Australia, Victoria and Northern Territory, including as the Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Council on Healthcare Standards (ACHS) and ACHS International. Initially training as a Registered Nurse and Registered Midwife in the South Australian health system, Christine has over forty years’ experience in health service management, strategic and operational planning, quality and safety systems and, in leading and implementing change in complex health care organisations. Christine has been Director of Healthcare Management Programs and then Deputy Dean Rural and Remote Health SA in the College of Medicine and Public Health at Flinders University.
Mark Brommeyer
Senior Lecturer in Healthcare Management, College of Business, Government and Law
Mark has spent forty years in the health sector, with significant experience in digital health strategy, competency, change, training and risk management. He has been involved in digital health transformations across eleven countries over the past 30 years. Mark trained as a Registered Nurse, he is a Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Digital Health, an Associate Fellow of the Australasian College of Health Service Management, and is on the examination committee of the Certified Health Informatician Australasia (CHIA). Mark is a Senior Lecturer in Health Care Management, Flinders University, and is undertaking his Doctor of Philosophy research looking at Digital Health Competencies for Health Service Managers.
Entry requirements
Applicants must normally hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification and must also have no less than two years postgraduate work experience in the health or aged care sector.
How to apply
1
Select your preferred course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check individual course entries on SATAC for information on important dates.
4
Apply online at SATAC.
Apply via SATAC
2GC911
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
We’re here to help you every step of the way.
If you would like to talk to one of our friendly advisers about applying to university or to discuss your study options and pathways, please contact us.
1300 354 633
Book a chat
Apply for study in 2025
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 23 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
