Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/doctor-philosophy-phd-law


Study
Courses
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Law
Undertake a PhD in Law at Flinders
The power to change
Understand the legal issues of today to influence change and impact lives in the future by undertaking independent research in an area of law that can make a difference. Develop your legal expertise and gain essential transferable skills, such as competency in advanced research, critical thinking, legal writing, communication, and project management. You will be part of a vibrant academic community that values both established and emerging areas of legal research.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Doctor of Philosophy (Law)
Duration:
4 years
Delivery mode:
In Person
Location:
Bedford Park
CRICOS code:
011339D
Annual fees:
2025: $38,100
Further information on fees listed
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake a PhD in Law at Flinders
Work with supervisors who are global experts in their field
Collaborate with industry partners
Explore possibilities for interdisciplinary research
Establish links with world-class overseas universities
Make a difference in the world – your research has the potential to change people’s lives
Discover more about research at the
College of Business, Government and Law
Your career
A PhD in Law can open the door to a career both inside the courtroom and out. With in-depth knowledge in a legal specialty you will be attractive to both national and international government and non-governmental organisations, in areas of legal practice, business, diplomacy, social justice, and human rights.
Potential occupations include:
Consultant
Legal adviser
Practicing lawyer
Civil servant
Legal/Human rights advocate
Government analyst
Academic/Researcher
Potential employers include:
Government
Research Institutes/Think Tanks
Law Firms
National and international corporations
NGOs
Universities
Top up scholarships available
Top up scholarships are available for newly enrolled high-achieving domestic or international PhD students in the College of Business, Government and Law on the basis of academic merit and research potential.
The six scholarships available are valued at $5,000 per annum for the duration of a PhD degree (maximum 3 years, with a possible 6-month extension).
Find out more
Potential research supervisors
Flinders Law academic staff are recognised as leaders in their fields both in Australia and around the world. Our academics draw on their extensive knowledge to undertake research that makes a difference to people's lives.
Professor Margaret Davies
Legal theory, feminist legal theory
Associate Professor Hossein Esmaeili
International law, Islamic and Middle Eastern law, immigration and refugee law
Associate Professor Vivienne Brand
Corporate law, corporate ethics,	Social licence to operate, Corporate whistleblowing, AI and corporate boards, Foreign bribery
Associate Professor Marinella Marmo
Gender and human rights, corporate and transnational crime, human trafficking
Learn
what to prepare
before approaching a potential research supervisor.
Learn
what to prepare
before approaching a potential research supervisor.
Ready to find the perfect supervisor for your research journey?
Explore Research @ Flinders.
Find a supervisor
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
Apply now
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
Apply now
Meet our PhD students
Thomas Jupe
Thesis title
:
The accountability of State crime: An exploration into the human rights violations concerning the Rohingya of Myanmar
Supervisors
:
Dr Sanzhuan Guo
,
Associate Professor Marinella Marmo
This project explores the ongoing ‘genocidal violence’ committed against the Rohingya ethnic population of Myanmar by government forces, in an attempt to bring to light the legal and political factors that allow nation states to continue to carry out serious violations of human rights, with no immediate intervention from international law.
Enquire now
Review answers to regularly asked questions about applying for a higher degree by research
(FAQs).
After reviewing the Study HDR web pages and FAQs above, if you still have questions that have not been answered, complete the form. You must provide details about the Reason for your enquiry in the text box 'Ask a question here’.
For queries relating specifically to a project, direct your enquiry to the
College where you plan to study.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 11 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
