Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-geography-environmental-studies


Study
Courses
Geography and environmental studies
Choose a major in Geography and Environmental Studies
Make sense of the world.
Geography explores the dynamic relationships between people and cultures, the natural and built environments that shape us. A major in Geography makes sense of the world by recognising connections, distribution and characteristics of various social and biophysical processes, and by asking where, at what scale, and why the world is the way it is. It examines contemporary issues like social and environmental justice and the efficient, equitable and sustainable use of resources. You’ll be introduced to different ways of knowing the world—drawing on the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities. You’ll develop transferable skills in computing and written, oral and graphic communication.
Why study Geography and Environmental Studies?
Gain an understanding of complex environmental, economic, social and political trends that shape Australia and other countries
Recognise the importance of scale and time in analysing different phenomena
Learn to think critically and creatively, work effectively in teams, and take initiative
Recognise, evaluate and synthesise various views, arguments and sources of information pertinent to solving environmental and social problems
What you will study
Interactions between environments, society, economy and culture
Sustainable development and environmental challenges
Environmental change
Demography
Environmental impact assessment
Indigenous environmental management
Developing areas of the Global South
Geographical information systems
Add Geography and Environmental Studies to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Special Education
How many units?
A major in Geography and Environmental Studies is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
four year two topics (18 units)
two year 3 topics (9 units).
Geography and Environmental Studies can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topic options.
You may complete an extended major sequence in Geography and Environmental studies by completing the prescribed major topics (36 units), plus an additional two topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics listed below. An extended major in Geography is not available to students enrolled in the double Bachelor of Education/Bachelor of Arts degrees.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
Your analytical and fieldwork skills will prepare you to be a problem solver suited to positions requiring good communication, data management and information synthesis.
Potential occupations include:
environmental consultant
geographical information systems officer
planning and development surveyor
urban, transport or regional planner
international aid or development worker
market researcher
nature conservation officer
sustainability consultant
tourism officer
environmental entrepreneur.
Hear from our students
Lisa Glazbrook
Bachelor of Arts (Geography and Environmental Studies / Indigenous and Australian Studies
“
Learning about the connection between people and the environment, especially within different spots throughout South Australia is fascinating to learn. My main interest is how different cultures and people interact differently with different environments and also how much they value these environments. This degree lets me really take an in-depth look into what interests me.
The staff here at Flinders are super supportive. I went to a different university prior to coming here, and what I have found is that the staff really support you, get to know you on a more personal level and give you whatever assistance you need. This, combined with the more natural campus creates a much better learning environment."
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
