Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/postgraduate-psychology-advanced


Study
Courses
Psychology (Advanced)
Overview
If you are a psychology graduate looking to hone your skills at applying psychology to real world contexts or want to take the next step towards becoming a registered psychologist, this one-year APAC-accredited fourth-year course at Flinders may be perfect for you.
The course provides an alternative to Honours in Psychology. It covers links between knowledge, theory, research, and psychological practice, with an emphasis on how psychology informs our understanding of personal and social problems, and interventions to address them.
Study at the no. 1 SA University for undergraduate psychology starting salary and quality of education experience. (The Good Universities Guide 2020, public SA-founded universities only).
This degree is available both online and in person from 2025.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Course
Graduate Diploma in Psychology (Advanced)
Duration:
1 year
Delivery mode:
In person
Online
Location:
Bedford Park
Availability:
Full-time
Part-time
Start dates:
March
SATAC code:
2GD118
Annual indicative fees (2025):
$20,520 (Full fee paying)
Further information on fees listed
Apply via SATAC
2GD118
The postgraduate program is not available to international students.
Continue to
explore course options
at Flinders University or send us an enquiry.
What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

Your career
The course is designed to prepare students to apply knowledge and skills across a range of careers and employment settings. It also provides a pathway to future study to become a registered psychologist.
Graduates are eligible to apply for a one-year professional masters program in psychology for the purpose of gaining general registration. This course does not qualify graduates for entry into a PhD in psychology or into a two-year Master of Psychology program.
Potential occupations include:
human resource management
advertising and marketing
evaluation and applied research
mental health services
youth work
family and social services
public and private sector management
juvenile justice and corrective services
relationship counselling
residential care worker
private sector administration and management
correctional services.
Potential employers include:
recruitment agencies
marketing companies
local government
governmental departments
private businesses
consultancies.
Professional accreditation / recognition
The Graduate Diploma in Psychology (Advanced) is accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council (APAC). Graduates will be eligible to apply for further study in a Master of Professional Psychology and subsequently undertake a one-year internship via the Psychology Board of Australia to become a registered psychologist.
What you will study
Students learn to interpret and evaluate applied psychological research across a range of contexts and problems. Under the guidance of their supervisor, they conduct an independent study using appropriate methods and data analysis techniques. Students also learn about a range of practical skills, including counselling, interviewing, assessment techniques, and critical thinking.
Prospective students should note that on-campus class attendance and active participation are required for this course.
View study program
Graduate Diploma in Psychology (Advanced)
Entry requirements
Applicants must hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification in psychology or with a major in psychology, completed within the last 10 years, which is accredited by the Australian Psychology Accreditation Council (APAC); and must normally have achieved a Grade Point Average of 5.00 or above in all second and third year psychology topics attempted including a third year research methodology topic. Selection will be based on academic merit.
Inherent requirements for undergraduate psychology courses
Flinders University and the College of Education, Psychology and Social Work (CEPSW) strongly support the right of all people to pursue an undergraduate psychology course.
Inherent requirements are the essential components of a course or unit that demonstrate the abilities, knowledge and skills to achieve the core learning outcomes of the course or unit, while preserving the academic integrity of the University's learning, assessment and accreditation processes. The inherent requirements are the abilities, knowledge and skills needed to complete the course that must be met by all students.
Inherent requirements
How to apply
1
Select your preferred course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check individual course entries on SATAC for information on important dates.
4
Apply online at SATAC.
Apply via SATAC
2GD118
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
