Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-indigenous-australian-studies


Study
Courses
Indigenous and Australian Studies
Choose a major in Indigenous and Australian Studies
Understand the collective future for all Australians.
The Indigenous and Australian Studies major will cover movements such as Indigenous sovereignty, Indigenous human rights, self-determination and Indigenous futures. This will contribute to broader understandings of political and social policy within Australia (Closing the Gap 2019) and Indigenous communities self-determination to redress inequality.
Using Indigenous led creative/scholarly teaching and learning, (visual arts, poetics, Indigenous literatures, spoken word, performance, song, exhibition, curation), will locate Indigenous well-being and Indigenous ways of knowing and doing, as central to any decolonising processes. The major can contribute to creative decolonising knowledge production, critical thinking, having the potential to transform and reform relationships within settler-state institutions through informed graduates.
Why study Indigenous and Australian Studies?
Gain a thorough grounding in historical and contemporary issues and debates in Indigenous and Australian Studies
Connect across boundaries and value ethical behavior through a cross-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary understanding of Indigenous cultures and Australian society
Graduate with a critical understanding of the various ways Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders identities are formed and represented within Australia
Critically examine ideas of representation, power and privilege through key sites of knowledge production, including social and cultural institutions in Australia
What you will study
Indigenous culture, languages, politics, archaeology and art
Reconciliation and Indigenous knowledges
Indigenous women's voices
Indigenous environmental management
Indigenous and settler relations in Australian history
Add Indigenous and Australian Studies to your degree
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
How many topics will you study?
A major in Indigenous and Australian Studies is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Indigenous and Australian Studies can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
You can complete an extended major in Indigenous and Australian Studies by completing the prescribed major topics (36 units), plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics. An extended major in Indigenous and Australian Studies is not available if you’re studying the Bachelor of Education/Bachelor of Arts.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
You'll be able to apply your understanding of the world to open up opportunities in a broad range of industries that value critical and ethical thinking, effective communication and strong research skills. These transferrable skills are valued all around the world and are emerging as highly desirable in the ever-changing the nature of global workforces.
Potential occupations include:
cultural adviser
community educator, advocate or consultant
public servant
policy adviser
fundraising coordinator.
Potential employers include:
government agencies and the public service
cultural institutions
media organisations
marketing companies
tourism companies.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
