Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-italian


Study
Courses
Italian
Choose a major in Italian
Become a passionate ambassador of
bella figura.
Study an Italian major to explore Italian language and culture, and to gain the essential skills to communicate effectively in Italian. We'll connect you with one of the richest cultural heritages in the world, as well as with one of the most vibrant communities in Australia.
Understanding the Italian language and important cultural aspects is crucial both locally and globally, as it improves inclusivity and communication for professional purposes, for leisure, and for personal wellbeing. In addition to gaiming insights into the Italian language and its secrets, you'll also explore cultural aspects such as cinema, history, society, literature, design and fashion.
The Italian major is available across two streams:
Beginners (for students with no knowledge of the Italian language)
Intermediate (for students with SACE, IB or equivalent proficiency in Italian)
Why study Italian?
Italy is a leading world economy, the third largest economy in the European Union, and one of Australia’s strongest trading partners
Italy is an exceptional reference point for anyone with a personal or professional interest in music, arts, design, fashion, food, sustainability and lifestyle
Italian is taught to over 30,000 students in South Australian schools
There is growing demand for teachers of Italian in primary and secondary schools
Explore opportunities for real-world experience through placements, overseas study trips, and research projects.
Learn from native speaker lecturers.
Your career
This major equips you with a set of career-ready skills tailored for specific professional paths.
You will develop advanced Italian language skills, an in-depth knowledge of many aspects of Italian culture, analytical and critical thinking abilities, essential for roles in multiple professional fields. Plus, you'll become an ambassador for Italian language and culture in your future workplace.
You'll be ready for careers in primary or secondary education (with further qualification in Education), but also for a range of careers where language and culture proficiency will be needed occasionally or daily. Additionally, skills in Italian language and culture make you suitable for positions not only in Australia, but all over the world.
Potential occupations include:
Translator / Interpreter
Language Consultant
Journalist
Diplomat
Musician / Opera Singer
Advertising Coordinator
Potential employers include:
Education providers
NGOs
Department of Foreign Affairs
Research institutions
Education
Tourism Agencies
Media Companies
Hospitality
“
Continuing Italian at university is one of the best decisions I have made.
I have enjoyed engaging with the language and the culture at a deeper level amongst other similarly passionate people and from a highly enthusiastic and intelligent teaching team. Learning Italian has broadened my global understanding and has enhanced my understanding and appreciation of languages as a whole as an important facet of the diverse state we live in.
Samoda Silva, cross-institutional language student (Italian)
”
What you will study
This major offers a breadth of engaging topics.
Besides the Italian language itself, you will explore:
Italian Cinema
Italian Cultural Studies
Italian Style
The Italian Mafia: Origin and Representations.
Study options
Study this major in the following degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Languages / Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Diploma in Language
How many units?
This major caters for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. It is comprised of 36 units, including:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units)
Two Year 3 topics (9 units)
Plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Italian can also be taken as a minor for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. Your 18 units will include:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units).
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Meet the experts
Dr Stefano Bona
Stefano is a passionate Lecturer in Italian Studies in the College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences, with a 15-year experience in teaching Italian as a second language in tertiary education. He is Italian native speaker, and his interests include Italian cinema, Italian history, multiculturalism, design, language policies. He has researched on Italian filmmakers in the People’s Republic of China, and published articles and book chapters on Italian Cinema and Transnational Cinema.
Learn More
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 17 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
