Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-languages


Study
Courses
Languages
Choose a major in Languages
Study that speaks to your interests.
Learn to speak and read other languages, delve into other cultures and build a global understanding of the world. With the internationalisation of the job market, graduates with a qualification in a foreign language will have greater employment opportunities both in Australia and overseas. Studying a language is a multidisciplinary pursuit. You will improve your communication skills, enhance your sociocultural understanding of local and international environments, and gain insights into diverse cultural and linguistic practices.
Our languages include:
French
Indonesian
Italian
Modern Greek
Spanish
.
As well as the languages on offer at Flinders University, you can also undertake cross-institutional studies at the University of Adelaide and the University of South Australia—expanding the languages on offer.
Why study Languages?
Add another language to your repertoire
Take advantage of cross-institutional study
Study abroad and immerse yourself in a different culture
Develop confidence, open-mindedness and cultural understanding with an international focus
What you will study
Reading, writing, listening to and speaking your chosen language
Cultural studies
History and mythology
Literature, film and theatre
Add Languages to your degree
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Business
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Special Education
Bachelor of Languages, Master of Teaching (Secondary)
Bachelor of Arts - Enhanced Program for High Achievers
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Education (Secondary), Bachelor of Health Sciences
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
How many topics will you study?
A language major is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Languages can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2  or Year 3 topics.
Languages are only offered as extended majors if you are enrolled in the Bachelor of Languages.
Combine your Flinders degree with a Diploma in Languages
Take steps towards a rewarding and fascinating career, and gain expertise in communication, critical thinking, research, planning and negotiation.
Find out more
Your career
Potential areas of employment include tourism agencies, foreign language teaching, international trade, finance and commerce, diplomatic and defence agencies, translating services, and international development.
Potential occupations include:
international trade officer
translator and interpreter
settlement support officer
international student advisor
foreign language intelligence analyst
project officer in culturally and linguistically diverse communities
international journalist.
Potential employers include:
government departments and agencies
international not-for-profits
media companies
travel publications
airlines and travel companies.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 28 Apr 2021
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
