Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/master-arts-research-creative-performing-arts


Study
Courses
Master of Arts by Research in Creative and Performing Arts
Undertake a Master of Arts by Research in Creative and Performing Arts at Flinders
Gain expertise in a specialised area of creativity
Choose from the areas of drama, screen, digital media, or creative writing and delve into innovative research through creative practice that expands our experience and knowledge of the cultural and social world.
Discover more about research at the
College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences
.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Master of Arts by Research in Creative and Performing Arts
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In Person
Location:
Bedford Park
CRICOS code:
106282D
Annual fees:
2025: $38,100
Further information on fees listed
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake a Master of Arts by Research in Creative and Performing Arts at Flinders?
Become an international expert in your topic and gain expertise in a specialised area of creativity.
Make a difference in the world. Your research has the potential to improve people’s lives through a better understanding of the individual experience and how creative arts add value to our society.
Be the first to explore a fascinating research question. You will have the opportunity to fill a gap in current knowledge or answer a previously unresolved issue in your field.
Master of Arts by Research opportunities
Areas of research study include:
Digital Embodiment
Arts in Health
Transformative Storytelling
Indigenous Creative Arts Praxis
Cultures of Archiving the Arts
Ecological and Climate Crisis
Fiction writing (genre, historical and speculative fiction)
Performance-based research (acting, playwriting, dramaturgy)
Cinema studies.
Your career
A Masters of Arts by Research gained in Creative and Performing Arts at Flinders equips you with a wide range of skills valued in all types of organisations and careers. It will enhance your creative practice, analytical and communication skills, provide you with the ability to quickly learn new concepts and adapt to change, and enhance your time management, organisation and resilience skills..
A Masters of Arts by Research is a stepping-stone to a career as an artist, a professional researcher in the public sector, think tanks, charities, universities, and private corporations. Individuals with a Masters of Arts by Research in Creative and Performing Arts are highly sought after for various professions in public and private organisations and have found roles in writing, the public service, consulting, advising, teaching, publishing and establishing a freelance creative career.
Potential occupations include:
artist
academic
writer
consultant or adviser
professional researcher
community arts and cultural developer
Potential employers include:
arts organisations
performing and creative arts companies
museums and galleries
publishing companies
media production companies
universities
councils
think tanks
public sector.
Assemblage Centre for Creative Arts
Assemblage is Flinders University’s research centre for artistic enquiry and art creation.
It is the meeting point of art and science, health, technology, engineering, industry and community. We embrace new technologies and ambitious collaborations to dissolve perceived barriers between art forms, disciplines and areas of research to uncover boundless possibilities.
Find out more
Potential research supervisors
Flinders Creative and Performing Arts academic staff include several award-winning writers and performers and are recognised as leaders in their fields both in Australia and globally for their theoretical and practice-led research. Our academic supervisors draw on their extensive knowledge and exciting research in the areas of creative writing, theatre production, drama and screen critical studies.
Dr Christopher Hurrell
Shakespeare, musical theatre, directing, dramaturgy, actor training
Dr Renato Musolino
Acting, Laban movement analysis, Stanislavski, psycho-physical acting methodologies
Dr Faye Blanch
Indigenous education, feminism, performance practice
Dr Ali Gumillya Baker
Indigenous art theory and criticism, Indigenous histories and colonialism, memory, visual sovereignty, visual and performance art, cultural studies
Dr Lisa Bennett
Novel writing, fiction writing, speculative fiction, contemporary Australian genre fiction, myths and mythology, and Vikings in history, literature and popular culture
Associate Professor Julia Erhart
Women screen practitioners, LGBTQ+ self-representation, documentary and factual media (including documentary duration and the documentary ‘event’), cinema memory and the archive, Australian media, media ethics
Dr Nicholas Godfrey
Hollywood cinema, film aesthetics, film distribution, Australian cinema, Asian cinema
Dr Natalie Harkin
Decolonising state archives, and engaging archival-poetic methods to research and document Aboriginal women’s domestic service stories and labour histories in South Australia.
Dr Sean Williams
Speculative fiction in short and long forms
Dr Amy Matthews
Fiction writing (novels and short stories), genre fiction, historical fiction, holocaust representation, popular romance studies, film and television, literary theory
Dr Sarah Peters
Verbatim theatre, collaborative theatre-making, playwriting, dramaturgy
Associate Professor Simone Tur
Cultural studies
Dr Alex Vickery-Howe
Political storytelling, intercultural storytelling, myth and fantasy, and emerging audiences.
Dr Tully Barnett
Interdisciplinary research into investigating ways of valuing art and culture beyond econometrics, and digitisation as a cultural practice.
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
6
Submit your application
Apply now
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
5
Submit your application
Apply now
Enquire now
Review answers to regularly asked questions about applying for a higher degree by research
(FAQs).
After reviewing the Study HDR web pages and FAQs above, if you still have questions that have not been answered, complete the form. You must provide details about the Reason for your enquiry in the text box 'Ask a question here’.
For queries relating specifically to a project, direct your enquiry to the
College where you plan to study.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 13 Aug 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
