Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/master-arts-research-social-sciences


Study
Courses
Master of Arts by Research in Social Sciences
Undertake a Master of Arts by Research in Social Sciences at Flinders
Understand social forces and power structures, inequality and sustainability issues.
Expand our understanding of the social, cultural and political forces that shape and steer the world today by conducting research in social sciences.
Discover more about research at the
College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences
.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Master of Arts by Research in Social Sciences
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Location:
Bedford Park
CRICOS code:
022482F
Annual fees:
2025: $38,100
Further information on fees listed
Research supervisors

How to apply

Enquire

Why undertake a Master of Arts by Research in Social Sciences at Flinders?
Become an international expert in your topic and gain expertise in a specialised area of social sciences.
Make a difference to the world. Your research has the potential to improve people’s lives by making sense of the social forces and power structures, globalisation, and sustainability issues at play in the world today.
Be the first to explore a fascinating research question and fill a gap in current knowledge or answer a previously unresolved issue in your field.
Master of Arts by Research opportunities
Areas of research study include:
Gender Studies
Cultural Memory
Indigenous Politics
Sustainability and Development
Environmental Management
Legal Sociology
Population Studies
Urban Governance
Your career
A Masters of Arts by Research gained in Social Sciences at Flinders equips you with a wide range of skills valued in all types of organisations and careers. It will enhance your analytical and communication skills, provide you with the ability to quickly learn new concepts and adapt to change, and enhance your time management, organisation and resilience skills.
A Masters of Arts by Research is a stepping-stone to a career as a professional researcher in the public sector, think tanks, charities, universities, and private corporations. Individuals with a Master of Arts by Research in Social Science are highly sought after for various professions in public and private organisations and have found roles in writing, the law, public service, consulting, advising, teaching and publishing.
Potential occupations include:
academic
writer
consultant or adviser
professional researcher.
Potential employers include:
universities
think tanks
public sector
charities, NGOs / not for profit sector
private corporations.
Gender Consortium
Find out more about our work on gender and development equality across Australia and Asia Pacific.
Find out more
Potential research supervisors
Flinders Social Sciences academic staff are recognised as leaders in their fields both in Australia and globally. Our academic supervisors draw on their extensive knowledge and exciting research covering topics related to inequality and sustainability.
Monique Mulholland, Senior Lecturer (Sociology)
Associate Professor Barbara Baird
Cultural politics and histories of sexuality and reproduction in Australia, abortion, feminism in Australia, 'intersectional' approaches to gender and sexuality issues, representations of children and 'the child', critical race and whiteness theories in Australian contexts, Indigenous studies, memory and representations of the past.
Dr Gareth Butler
Sustainable tourism development, community engagement, tourism mobilities, tourism and migration, socio-cultural impacts of tourism, independent travel, national parks.
Associate Professor Bev Clarke
Coastal climate adaptation, cultural ecosystem service evaluation, coastal management, community engagement, marine protected area management, natural resource management, environmental impact assessment, waste management, policy evaluation.
Dr Monique Mulholland
Gender and sexuality - post structural feminist theory, queer theory, theories of ‘normalisation’ and deviance/perversity, pornography, media and representation, non-normative sexualities. critical race theory - whiteness, decolonising methodologies, post-colonial theory, intersectionality, affecting change - private/public intimacies and the changing nature of sexual expression, sexualised popular and media cultures, youth cultures and youth sexualities, intergenerational negotiation and migrant communities.
Associate Professor Kris Natalier
Child and family policy, children, families, family law and social policy, gender, intimacy and relationships, marriage and intimate relationships, parenting, poverty and inequality.
Professor Sharyn Roche Anleu
Sociology of law, criminal justice system, socio-legal studies, emotions, courts and judicial officers, professions and occupations, gender and workplaces.
Associate Professor Udoy Saikia
Population studies, human development and wellbeing, multi-dimensional poverty analysis and sustainable development.
Professor Susanne Schech
Critical development studies, social and cultural geography of migration, international development, ethnicity and race studies.
Dr Michael Scott
Creative and cultural industries and urban governance.
Dr Laura Roberts
Gender studies, feminist philosophy and politics, post/decolonial theory, contemporary social movements, and feminist philosophies of technology.
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
6
Submit your application
Apply now
How to apply
1
Review the
course rule
2
Check your eligibility
3
Find a research supervisor
4
Find out about scholarships and fees
5
Prepare your application
5
Submit your application
Apply now
Enquire now
Review answers to regularly asked questions about applying for a higher degree by research
(FAQs).
After reviewing the Study HDR web pages and FAQs above, if you still have questions that have not been answered, complete the form. You must provide details about the Reason for your enquiry in the text box 'Ask a question here’.
For queries relating specifically to a project, direct your enquiry to the
College where you plan to study.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 13 Aug 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
