Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-modern-greek


Study
Courses
Modern Greek
Choose a major in Modern Greek
Discover the eternal spirit of Greece.
Study a major to explore Modern Greek language and culture, and to gain the essential skills to communicate effectively in Modern Greek. This program will give you an understanding of the fundamentals of Modern Greek language and culture in various contexts, equipping you with essential skills to communicate effectively in a language which is widely used not only in Greece and Cyprus, but also by many people in Australia.
Understanding Modern Greek and important cultural aspects is crucial in our globalised world, fostering effective communication in the workplace, for leisure, and for personal wellbeing. You will gain insights into Modern Greek vocabulary, grammar, phonetics, but also into cultural aspects such as Greek Mythology, literature, and history.
The Modern Greek major is available across two streams:
Beginners (for students with no knowledge of the Modern Greek language)
Intermediate (for students with SACE, IB or equivalent proficiency in Modern Greek)
Why study Modern Greek?
Greece is the birthplace of Western civilization, democracy, philosophy, and many other influential ideas and innovations
Greece is situated in a strategic geographic location at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, and Africa. Studying Modern Greek allows you to understand this dynamic region's past and present
Explore study abroad programs to experience Greece's stunning natural beauty, from its islands to its mountains, as well as its impressive range of historical sites
As one of the oldest Indo-European languages still spoken, Modern Greek offers insights into linguistics and the evolution of languages
The curriculum covers diverse areas of everyday life, but also dives into more professional contexts.
Your career
This major equips you with a set of career-ready skills tailored for specific professional paths.
You will develop advanced Modern Greek language skills, an in-depth knowledge of many aspects of Italian culture, analytical and critical thinking abilities, essential for roles in multiple professional fields. Plus, you'll become an ambassador for the Modern Greek language and culture in your future workplace.
You'll be ready for careers in primary or secondary education (with further qualification in Education), but also for a range of careers where language and culture proficiency will be needed occasionally or daily. Additionally, skills in Modern Greek language and culture make you suitable for positions not only in Australia, but all over the world.
Potential occupations include:
Teacher
Translator / Interpreter
Tourism Operator
Diplomat
Journalist
Content Creator
Business Owner
Potential employers include:
Education providers
NGOs
Department of Foreign Affairs
Research institutions
Education
Tourism Agencies
Media Companies
Hospitality
What you will study
This major offers a breadth of engaging topics.
Besides the Modern Greek language itself, you will explore:
Greek Mythology: Gods, Heroes and Mortals
Homer’s Odyssey: Wanderings and Divine Interventions
Alexandria: The Legacy of a City.
Study options
Study this major in the following degrees:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Languages
Bachelor of Languages / Bachelor of International Relations and Political Science
Bachelor of Laws - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Laws (Honours) - Legal Practice Entry / Bachelor of Arts
Diploma in Language
How many units?
This major caters for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. It is comprised of 36 units, including:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units)
Two Year 3 topics (9 units)
Plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Modern Greek can also be taken as a minor for Beginners and Intermediate (post-secondary) students. Your 18 units will include:
Two Year 1 topics (9 units)
Two Year 2 topics (9 units).
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Meet the experts
Dr Maria Palaktsoglou
Dr Maria Palaktsoglou is Greece-born and passionate about languages in general.  She has taught Modern Greek language and culture for several years. Maria has published a series of articles and chapters on literature, migration and Distance learning and has taken part in many national and international conferences both in Australia and Europe. She has co-edited a book, two special editions of The Modern Greek Studies Association Journal, and many Conference Proceedings.
Learn More
Mr Antonios Litinas
Learn More
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 17 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
