Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/major-philosophy


Study
Courses
Philosophy
Choose a major in Philosophy
Ask the big questions.
Philosophy deals with some of the big questions about the world, society and ourselves. Is there a God? What is knowledge and what do we know? Do morality and government have any authority over us? Do animals have rights? What is beauty, meaning or truth? Philosophy encourages thought and discussion by presenting a range of possible answers. It touches on many other areas of study, including history, politics, economics, linguistics, computer studies, literature and screen studies.
Why study Philosophy?
Gain a broad understanding of philosophical ideas, including moral and social philosophy, epistemology and metaphysics
Philosophy asks important questions about every area of human inquiry; about what makes up the universe (physical or non-physical), how we know things (experience or reason), how we live (morality) and how to organise society (political philosophy)
Form thoughtful philosophical arguments about literature, art, science, history, language, morality and politics
Think deeply about fundamental issues—like the relationship between the mind and body, or why we should obey the law, or how we can change the opinions of others
The questions philosophy asks are universal
What you will study
The mind and its place in nature
Philosophical issues in psychology
The individual and their relation to the state and society
Critical reasoning
Morality, both theoretical and practical
The nature of reality, perception, truth and knowledge
Literature, art, music and aesthetics
The emotions and their relationship to the arts, morality, politics and religion
Studying philosophy has provided me with the foundations of critical thought, academic enquiry, and researching skills. I have always been encouraged to pursue research topics of interest, often with controversial themes, and have been challenged and nurtured through the mentorship of my teachers.
—  Piper, former student
Add Philosophy to your degree
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Early Childhood)
Bachelor of Applied Geographical Information Systems
Bachelor of Arts (Enhanced Program for High Achievers)
Bachelor of Arts, Master of Teaching (Primary R-7)
Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood), Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts and Science
Bachelor of Behavioural Science (Psychology)
Bachelor of Education (Primary R-7), Bachelor of Arts
How many units?
A Philosophy major is made up of 36 units, including:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
two Year 3 topics (9 units)
plus two additional topics (9 units) from the Year 2 or Year 3 topics.
Philosophy can also be taken as a minor. Your 22.5 units will include:
two Year 1 topics (9 units)
two Year 2 topics (9 units)
plus an additional topic (4.5 units) from the Year 2  or Year 3 topics.
This minor is not available if you’re studying a Bachelor of Education. You can undertake an extended major by completing the major topics, plus two additional topics (9 units) from Year 2 or Year 3.
Add a year of Honours
Kickstart your career or future in research with one extra year.
By adding just one year full-time to your undergraduate degree, you can graduate with Honours. Enhance your career prospects, delve deeper into knowledge or launch yourself into the world of research.
Explore your honours year
Your career
With a major in Philosophy, you could be consulting, providing ethical training or advice, or analysing problems for a range of employers.
Potential occupations include:
journalist
government officer, consultant or policy adviser
public servant
business manager
lobbyist or activist.
Potential employers include:
government departments and public agencies
newspapers, radio, TV, and other media organisations
not-for-profits
think tanks concerned with charitable or political causes
hospitals and universities
businesses and management consulting.
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Sep 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
