Link: https://www.flinders.edu.au/study/courses/postgraduate-physiotherapy


Study
Courses
Physiotherapy
Overview
Prepare to register and practise as a physiotherapist.
Physiotherapists work with people through the lifespan to develop, maintain and restore movement and functional ability.
The physiotherapy profession has well-established research and evidence-based practice, which you will analyse and apply in this course.
Our program has a strong clinical focus with teaching mainly embedded within clinical settings across South Australia and has close links with healthcare providers to best prepare you for professional practice as a physiotherapist.
Emphasis is placed on preparing you to become a contemporary health professional who is able to work effectively across a range of settings, and in metropolitan or rural/remote locations.
Up to 80% off fees due to Government subsidies*.
*Government subsidies enable Flinders to offer Domestic applicants a reduction of up to 80% off full course fees through Commonwealth Supported Places. Offer subject to change.
Domestic
International
keyboard_arrow_down
I am an
International Student
I am not a citizen of
Australia or New Zealand.
Switch to International
I am a
Domestic Student
I am an Australian or New Zealand Citizen.
I'm an Australian Permanent Resident
(including Humanitarian Visa holders).
Switch to Domestic
Course
Master of Physiotherapy
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Location:
Bedford Park
Availability:
Full-time
Start dates:
March
SATAC code:
2CM134 (Commonwealth supported)
Annual indicative fees (2025):
$9,314 (Commonwealth supported)
Further information on fees listed
Apply via SATAC
2CM134
Course
Master of Physiotherapy
Duration:
2 years
Delivery mode:
In person
Location:
Bedford Park
Start dates:
March
CRICOS code:
079421D
Annual fees:
2025: $52,500
Further information on fees listed
What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

What you will study

Entry requirements

How to apply

Enquire

Your career
Physiotherapists work in a variety of settings across both public health and private practice. They remain in demand across the health sector and this outlook is projected to continue. Physiotherapists can also work in managerial and research positions, and opportunities exist to become self-employed in private practice or to work part-time.
Potential employers include:
hospitals
community health centres
aged care facilities
mental health services
rehabilitation centres
sports clinics and fitness centres
government departments
schools and universities.
Professional accreditation/recognition
The course is accredited by the Australian Physiotherapy Council and satisfies the academic requirements for registration as a physiotherapist with the Physiotherapist Board of Australia.
What you will study
The Master of Physiotherapy consists of 72 units.
It prepares you for professional practice as a physiotherapist.
You will progressively study the following:
interprofessional practice
musculoskeletal practice
cardiorespiratory practice
neurological rehabilitation
health promotion and leadership
research in clinical practice
complex case and chronic disease.
Clinical placements are included in every semester to ensure competency in practice.
Practical experience
The course includes 26 weeks of clinical placement. You will be expected to undertake placements in metropolitan Adelaide and in rural or remote areas of South Australia and/or Australia. Placements are often scheduled outside of normal university teaching weeks and you will be provided with further details on commencement of your studies.
Practical experience requirements
For more information about pre-placement requirements,
visit the placement compliance page.
View study program
Master of Physiotherapy
Get inspired
Gain industry experience at Flinders
Entry requirements
Applicants must hold a bachelor degree or equivalent qualification and have achieved a Flinders equivalent grade point average (GPA) of credit (5.00) or above to be considered.
Applicants who did not achieve the minimum GPA in their completed approved bachelor degree or equivalent qualification, can be considered on the basis of a second bachelor degree, graduate certificate, graduate diploma or masters degree of their choice, provided they have completed a minimum one semester full-time equivalent study in one of these courses and that Flinders equivalent GPA is 5.00 or above in this study.
Applicants must have also either completed the Bachelor of Health Sciences (Therapy Studies major) at Flinders University OR have met
topic pre-requisites
by having completed:
the equivalent of 9 units (0.25 years FTE) of study focusing on human physiology, including one dedicated topic of exercise physiology; and
the equivalent of 9 units (0.25 years FTE) of human anatomy, including one dedicated topic of human musculoskeletal anatomy; and
the equivalent of 4.5 units (0.125 years FTE) of study focusing on an understanding of the human and social environment and social perspectives in health such as psychology and sociology; and
the equivalent of 4.5 units (0.125 years FTE) of study in research methods; and/or evidence-based practice.
Due to limited places available, selection is based on meeting the above requirements and academic merit. Applicants who meet the above requirements will be ranked on their best Flinders equivalent GPA of 5.0 or above achieved over a minimum of one semester of full-time equivalent study in one course.
Please refer to the
pre-requisite flyer (PDF)
for further information about the topic pre-requisites.
Applicants who have completed their bachelor degree or equivalent qualification overseas or have completed their bachelor degree or equivalent in Australia more than six years ago must complete
pre-requisite self-assessment form
and also provide syllabus/topic descriptions.
Qualifications are not able to be pre-assessed and feedback can be provided once applications are submitted and considered through SATAC.
How to apply
1
Before applying read the
pre-requisite flyer (PDF)
and complete a
pre-requisite self-assessment form
2
Check individual course entries on
SATAC
for information on important dates.
3
Apply online at
SATAC
.
Apply via SATAC
2CM134
Flinders students can apply to transfer to this course internally. Visit:
www.flinders.edu.au/internaltransfer
for more information.
Entry requirements
Applicants must normally:
Hold a Bachelor degree or equivalent qualification and have achieved a Grade Point Average of 5.0 or above and must demonstrate they have successfully completed the following:
the equivalent of 9 units of study focusing on human physiology, including one dedicated topic of exercise physiology; and
the equivalent of 9 units of human anatomy, including one dedicated topic of human musculoskeletal and neurological anatomy; and
the equivalent of 4.5 units of study focusing on an understanding of the human and social environment and social perspectives in health such as psychology and sociology; and
the equivalent of 4.5 units of study in research methods and/or evidence-based practice.
Due to limited places available, selection is based on meeting the above requirements and academic merit. Applicants who meet the above requirements will be considered on their best Flinders equivalent GPA of 5.0 or above achieved over a minimum of one semester of full-time equivalent study in one course.
Applicants must also provide a completed
pre-requisite self-assessment form
as part of the application process
English language requirements
How to apply
1
Select your course.
2
Check entry requirements.
3
Check your
eligibility for credit
.
4
Apply online
5
Obtain certified documents.
6
Submit your application and documents.
View further details
EXPLORE
OTHER CAREERS
IN HEALTH
There are amazing careers in health all over the world for you to discover.
Uncover your passion
Course enquiries
For all course enquiries phone or email us or complete the course enquiry form.
1300 354 633
askflinders@flinders.edu.au
Book a chat
Course enquiries
Want more information about studying at Flinders University? Contact us to find out more – we’d love to help you decide if Flinders University is the right choice for you.
Sturt Rd, Bedford Park
South Australia 5042
South Australia | Northern Territory
Global | Online
Information for
Future students
Alumni
Media
Business and community
Current students
Staff
External contractors
Directories
Contact us
Campus and locations
Staff directory
Colleges
Library
Research Institutes and Centres
Follow Flinders
Website feedback
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Privacy
CRICOS Provider: 00114A      TEQSA Provider ID: PRV12097      TEQSA category: Australian University
Last Updated: 10 Oct 2024
FOREVER FEARLESS


Initial deposit N/A

Annual fee for All Programs is different mentioned on each course page.


English Language Requirements for all Programs choose 1 best suitable:

Undergraduate Programs
General Undergraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Writing and Speaking)
Exercise Science, Human Nutrition, Psychology

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Health Science, Law

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (20 Speaking, 24 Writing, 19 Reading, 20 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Education, Medicine, Social Work, Nursing

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Postgraduate Programs
General Postgraduate Courses

IELTS: 6.0 Overall (6.0 in Speaking and Writing)
TOEFL iBT: 72 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing)
PTE: 50 Overall (50 in Speaking and Writing)
Business, Clinical Exercise Physiology, Nursing

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 79 Total (18 Speaking, 21 Writing, 13 Reading, 12 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 in each band)
Occupational Therapy, Psychology (Advanced)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (6.5 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (58 in each band)
Audiology, Clinical Psychology, Teaching

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)
Higher Degrees by Research (HDR)
General HDR

IELTS: 6.5 Overall (6.0 Speaking, 6.5 Writing, 6.0 Reading, 6.0 Listening)
TOEFL iBT: 80 Total (18 Speaking, 22 Writing, 18 Reading, 18 Listening)
PTE: 58 Overall (50 Speaking, 58 Writing, 50 Reading, 50 Listening)
Clinical Psychology (HDR)

IELTS: 7.0 Overall (7.0 in each band)
TOEFL iBT: 94 Total (23 Speaking, 27 Writing, 24 Reading, 24 Listening)
PTE: 65 Overall (65 in each band)

Pakistan Entry Requirements for Undergraduate programs:
University recognizes international secondary schooling for direct entry to undergraduate programs. The minimum entry requirement is comparable to an ATAR of 65.


Pakistan Entry Requirements for Postgraduate Programs:
The equivalent of a three-year Australian bachelors degree. Some degrees may require work experience.
For ATAR, IB Diploma and GCE A levels score of each undergraduate program, refer to this link:

https://www.flinders.edu.au/content/dam/documents/study/international/undergraduate-entry-requirements-international.pdf
