Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/masters-in-administrative-science-vancouver/

Skip to content
Administrative Science MAS (Vancouver)
Home
/
Program
/
Administrative Science MAS (Vancouver)
Program Highlights
A 2 year, 30-credit program.
Option to complete the MAS program in an accelerated format as the Vancouver Campus offers Trimester terms of study (Fall, Spring, Summer).
An opportunity to begin the program at any one of three entry points during the year: September, January, May.
Practical application related to theory content.
Small classes are offered and class times will vary.
Five specializations in various professional areas to meet global needs and demands. Specialization courses focus on both practical and theoretical concepts while developing administrative, analytical, and decision-making skills. The specializations include:
Computer security and forensic administration
Global health and human services administration
Global leadership and administration
Global technology administration
Human resources administration
This program is offered under the approval of the Ministry of Post-Secondary Education and Future Skills having completed a quality assessment and meeting ministerial standards. While the MAS program provides graduates with foundational knowledge of administration, formal professional organizations often require additional study and testing in order to obtain licensing or certification.  It is the responsibility of prospective students to ensure that the program and degree align with their needs, such as being eligible for work or immigration pathways or being accepted by potential employers, professional license.
Post Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility: Yes
For international students, if you submit your
study permit application on or after November 1, 2024, you must also meet the new requirements that apply to your situation to be eligible to apply for a PGWP.
If you graduate from a university bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctoral degree program:
Field of study requirement: All fields of study are eligible. There is no additional field of study requirement.
As a university, graduates from all current FDU Vancouver programs, including the Master of Administrative Science, are eligible to apply for PGWP.  There is no field of study requirement.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada regulations regarding PGWP are subject to change.  Please visit
the IRCC website
for latest details.
Direct Admission
Students must have a minimum IELTS 6.5 across all bands (no band below 6.5), or equivalent*, for direct entry to the Master of Administrative Science degree program. Students will take a course load of nine academic credits in addition to EPS 6299, Graduate Research Seminar, in the first trimester. Students will take the remaining 21 credits in the next 3 terms, enabling them to complete the 30-credit degree program in as little as four consecutive trimesters.
*Students using TOEFL Home Edition, PTE Academic Online, and iTEP will be required to take the EPT.
Conditional Admission
FDU offers Conditional Acceptance to students who meet the university’s academic criteria outlined in the Admissions requirement section but require additional training in academic English before joining FDU’s degree programs. Students who don’t meet the established entry points indicated on the English Proficiency table can be conditionally admitted through the English Pathway Program. Students taking an ESL Pathway certificate are conditionally admitted and must complete the ESL pathway program before registering at FDU.
Upon completion of a pathway program
, undergraduate students will be enrolled in EPS 0099 + EPS 0199, while graduate students will be enrolled in EPS 5099 in the first term. Graduate students with an ILAC Pathway certificate level 3.3 or ILSC level A2 will be enrolled in EPS 5299 in the first term.
Applicants must provide a Letter of Acceptance from the ESL pathway program before receiving a Letter of Acceptance from FDU.
For the list of ESL Language schools, please check our
English Proficiency page.
PROFILES
MAS FACULTY
MAS Vancouver Advisory Board
MAS Admission Requirements
MAS Graduation Requirements
English Proficiency
Apply Now
Tuition and Fees
Schedule a Visit