Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/mfa-animation/

Skip to content
Animation MFA
Home
/
Program
/
Animation MFA
Launch Your Career
DEVELOP YOUR IDEAS
Our Mission
A Master of Fine Arts is the highest degree in animation. Our MFA offers three concentrations (
3D Character Animation, Visual Effects, Video Games
) that center around gaining intensive hands-on skills in the chosen concentration. This major focuses on increasing practical, visual, and creative skills to the highest level and provides students an opportunity to enhance their portfolios using twenty-first-century media and technologies. Prior to graduation, students are required to execute rigorous, in-depth thesis projects that demonstrate the skills learned in all of the classes in the curriculum. Upon completion, the thesis projects are exhibited in a public venue. Additionally, MFA students
prepare portfolios
and other materials necessary for job applications and interviews.
About the Degree
All of the courses in this program are offered in a hybrid format, which allows students to decide if they would like to
attend classes in-residence, remotely online, or a combination of the two
. If you live locally, some weeks you may want to be in our state-of-the-art Animation Lab with the Professor while other weeks you may opt to join remotely to work around personal or family obligations. Whether you live near or across the globe, you can be in our Animation Master’s program and attend your classes in whichever way works best for you.
Special Admissions Instructions:
This 60-credit degree accepts recent undergraduates, master’s level transfer students, working professionals who want to grow their animation skills, as well as people who desire a complete career change. A candidate for admission is encouraged to make a personal appointment with the Director of the Animation program in order to discuss admission eligibility, education plans, curriculum options, or to schedule a tour of the animation facilities.
MFA in Animation degree applicants must digitally submit a portfolio of 10-15 creative pieces as part of the application process. Acceptance is based on the quality of the work as well as meeting all of the other academic admission requirements of the university. The review committee is looking for work that is original in concept and content and will evaluate the portfolios to determine if the applicant qualifies to enter the program based on their artistic skills. If the submitted work infringes on copyright laws or is copied from other sources the applicant will be denied admission.
F-1 visa holders must attend all courses in-residence on a full-time basis.
Flexible Degree Paths
New enrollees can apply to begin in the Fall or Spring semester. Full-time students can complete this program in 2.5-3.5 years. Part-time students may take courses over multiple years until the required 60 credits are completed.
Admissions
Apply Now
Request Information
Info Session
Our Degrees
Each degree and concentration offers an opportunity to develop skills that will help you pursue your artistic and professional goals.
Student Learning Objectives
Students in the Animation Majors will be able to:
Develop and compose written conceptual materials effectively.
Convey information and ideas through visual imagery proficiently.
Engage actively in verbal critiques and discussions.
Create high-quality 2D and 3D character animations.
Industrial Application of Skills and Competencies:
Graduates of the program will be prepared to:
Utilize the principles of animation language as applied in the video game industry.
Write detailed character biographies, video game design proposals, treatments, and storylines effectively.
Apply animation knowledge specifically to the context of the video game industry.
Present animation and video game concepts, principles, and practices clearly in oral presentations.
Potential Career Paths*
The animation and video game industry is experiencing higher than average growth between 8% and 16% annually.
Animators
Special Effects Artists
Video Game Designers
Web Developer
Digital Designer
*Statistics and information compiled by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics
Upon entry, students select one of these concentrations to be their area of focus.
3D Character Animation Concentration
In this concentration, students study in-depth techniques that focus on every aspect of animating characters. Through the use of software techniques, acute observation skills, and motion capture technology, they master the skills needed to portray a high level of detail in animating believable characters and creatures.
Required Courses (36 Credits)
ANIM 5300
Storytelling
ANIM 5400
Character Design
ANIM 6100
Digital Sculpting
ANIM 6150
3D Character Texturing
ANIM 6300
3D Character Animation
ANIM 7000
Advanced 3D Character Animation
ANIM 7250
Lip-Syncing
ANIM 7425
Motion Capture
ANIM 7650
Thesis I
ANIM 7750
Thesis II
ANIM 7850
Thesis III
ANIM 7900
Animation Career Preparation
Major Electives (24 Credits)
8 ANIM 5000 or Higher Level Courses
Visual Effects Concentration
In this concentration, students animate illusions and tricks of the eye to simulate imagined events in stories and computer-generated environments. Along with enhancing and manipulating digital imagery created in a variety of 3D and 2D software programs, they also learn to integrate and composite believable components and visual effects into live-action footage.
Required Courses (36 Credits)
ANIM 5300
Storytelling
ANIM 5500
Digital 2D Animation
ANIM 5600
3D Layers in After Effects
ANIM 5700
Dynamic Effects and Particle Systems in After Effects
ANIM 5800
Compositing in After Effects
ANIM 6350
3D Particle Systems and Effects
ANIM 6700
Animating Fluids
ANIM 6805
Motion Tracking
ANIM 7650
Thesis I
ANIM 7750
Thesis II
ANIM 7850
Thesis III
ANIM 7900
Animation Career Preparation
Major Electives (24 Credits)
8 ANIM 5000 or Higher Level Courses
Video Games Concentration
In this concentration, students design and create animations that are intended to be utilized in video games, virtual reality, and interactive media. They learn how to optimize the visual data, bearing in mind the limitations of the platform that will be delivering it, in that the device will be dynamically rendering the incorporated assets in real-time.
Required Courses (36 Credits)
ANIM 5400
Character Design
ANIM 5500
Digital 2D Animation
ANIM 6100
Digital Sculpting
ANIM 6400
3D Animation for Games
ANIM 6600
Game Creation
ANIM 7500
Advanced Game Creation
ANIM 7525
Virtual Reality
ANIM 7600
Video Game Team Project
ANIM 7650
Thesis I
ANIM 7750
Thesis II
ANIM 7850
Thesis III
ANIM 7900
Animation Career Preparation
Major Electives (24 Credits)
8 ANIM 5000 or Higher Level Courses
Other Animation Electives
ANIM 5100
History of Animation & Special Effects
ANIM 5200
History of Video Games
ANIM 5650
3D Modeling
ANIM 5750
3D Character Modeling
ANIM 5850
Advanced Digital 2D Animation
ANIM 5900
Expressions and Scripting in After Effects
ANIM 6200
Animation with Houdini
ANIM 6900
Digital 2D Game Creation
ANIM 7100
3D Character Animation – Weight, Overlap and Follow through
ANIM 7200
Character Animation – Emotion and Personality
ANIM 7300
Animation with Hair/Fur
ANIM 7400
Animation with Cloth
ANIM 7550
Internship I
ANIM 7700
Faculty/Student Research I
ANIM 7775
Internship II
ANIM 7805
Faculty/Student Research II
Contact Information
Derek G. Larson
973-443-8693
d.larson@fdu.edu
Request login information to our cloud to upload your portfolio.
Submit Portfolio
Academic Advisor
Carlson,Christina M.
Campus Director, Academic Advising
Department:
Acad Advising and Stu Supp Srv
Email:
christina_carlson@fdu.edu
Phone:
973-443-8835
Mailstop
M-MS1-02
Requirements for Graduate Admissions
No Standardized Testing is Required
Completed FDU graduate admissions application
Official undergraduate and graduate transcripts from all colleges and universities attended
Two letters of recommendation (from a professor, employer, or professional in the field familiar with the student’s strengths and abilities)
Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with a minimum cumulative grade point ratio (CGPR) of 2.70 (applicants with a CGPR of less than 2.70 may be admitted on probation)
Digital portfolio
Personal statement
Resume
“I was immersed in an inspiring environment created by passionate artists and dedicated professors who were very caring and patient. The FDU animation program provided me with the most up-to-date tools and knowledge to get my skills ready, whether it was for the professional world or academia.”
Truc Tran
,
Tenure-Track Assistant Professor of Animation, Western Kentucky University
Scholarships
FINANCIAL AID
Academics
School of the Arts
Animation Studies
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information