Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/msacs-applied-computer-science/

Skip to content
Applied Computer Science MSACS (Vancouver)
Home
/
Program
/
Applied Computer Science MSACS (Vancouver)
The Master of Science in Applied Computer Science (MSACS) is a 30 credit program that prepares students for the direct pursuit of productive careers in industry and for continued graduate study. The program educates professionals to become leaders in various areas of computer science ranging from software engineering to computer design, and from systems analysis to the management of information systems.
Program Highlights
The MSACS program at the Vancouver campus follows FDU’s Gildart Haase School of Computer Sciences and Engineering mission of preparing competent computer professionals and responsible global citizens.
Students learn to evaluate current and emerging technologies; identify user needs; design user-friendly interfaces; apply, configure and manage these technologies; and assess their impacts on an individual user, an organization, the environment, and society.
Students can choose between two specializations: database administration or advanced computer programming. Each specialization comprises four courses (12 credits).
Students who desire to pursue further studies can select the thesis-based stream. A Master’s thesis comprises 6 to 12 credits, depending on the contents of the thesis and the recommendation of the thesis supervisor and the thesis committee.
Program Objectives
The MSACS program will produce graduates who:
Enter into and advance their careers in the profession of computer science and its closely related fields.
Continue their education to obtain additional training, professional certifications, and/or advanced degrees, including Ph.D., in the fields of computer science, management information systems, business administration, or computer engineering.
Continue to develop as responsible professionals and global citizens who are mindful of ethical issues, societal needs, and problems inherent in the computing field.
Program Learning Outcomes
Graduates of the MSACS program will demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and attributes:
An ability to gain and apply the knowledge of Computer Science theory to analyze problems, assess trade-offs, and develop creative solutions.
An ability to work effectively in teams and communicate with diverse audiences.
Understanding of the computing-related ethical and societal issues and their impact on individuals, organizations, and communities.
An ability to develop professionally and innovate with the deployment of computing technology.
Post Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility: Yes
For international students, if you submit your
study permit application on or after November 1, 2024, you must also meet the new requirements that apply to your situation to be eligible to apply for a PGWP.
If you graduate from a university bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctoral degree program:
Field of study requirement: All fields of study are eligible. There is no additional field of study requirement.
As a university, graduates from all current FDU Vancouver programs, including the Master of Science in Applied Computer Science, are eligible to apply for PGWP.  There is no field of study requirement.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada regulations regarding PGWP are subject to change.  Please visit
the IRCC website
for latest details.
FACULTY PROFILES
MSACS FACULTY
MSACS Admission Requirements
MSACS Graduation Requirements
English Proficiency
Apply Now
Tuition and Fees
Schedule a Visit