Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-business-administration/

Skip to content
Business Administration BS
Home
/
Program
/
Business Administration BS
Silberman College of Business
Department Information
Business Core Curriculum
Equip yourself with Silberman’s forward-thinking Business Administration major to be a sought-after graduate. You may choose to complete the Business Administration major with or without an area of concentration. The Business Administration major gives you the option to focus on an area of concentration by taking advanced business courses that help define your skill set.
All students enrolled in the Bachelor of Science program must complete the
University and Business Core Curriculum
in addition to the credits listed below your Business Administration major degree option.
BS in Business Administration without a concentration
BS Degree Requirements
Students pursuing a business administration major without a concentration must complete 21 credits of business major courses as follows:
Required courses
MIS4307 Introduction to E-Business
OR
MIS4303 Spreadsheet Applications in Business
Major elective courses
Select 18 credits among the business major courses offered by the other Silberman College of Business majors (provided that course prerequisites have been met). No more than 9 of these credits can be taken in any given discipline. Current students should refer to their degree audit in Self-Service for the most accurate program requirements.
Information Systems concentration (optional)
Required courses
Four of the required courses are offered on the Metropolitan, Florham, and Vancouver campuses. Some of these courses are delivered remotely via Zoom.
MIS3307 Data Visualization
MIS3308 Intro to Python for Business
MIS4303 Advanced Excel
MIS4304 Database Applications in Business
Select three elective business courses
Courses chosen from any permissible courses offered in other Silberman College of Business majors. Permissible means the student has satisfied all prerequisites for any course in which he/she wishes to enroll.
International Business concentration (optional)
The B.S. in Business Administration with an International Business concentration prepares you to understand and effectively participate in the management of business firms operating in a multinational environment. Courses examine in-depth theories and applied concepts relevant to conducting business in a competitive global arena.
Required courses
IBUS3201 Fundamentals of International Business
MKTG3371 Principles of International Marketing
MGMT3371 Concepts of International Management
ECON4208 International Trade
MIS4307 Introduction to E-Business
OR
MIS4303 Advanced Excel
Two 3-credit electives
Select two elective courses from any permissible major courses offered in the other Silberman College of Business majors.
Professional Selling and Sales Management concentration (optional)
Required courses
MKTG 3341 Professional Sales and Sales Management
MGMT 4380
, or
WMA 4380 Client Relations in Financial Management
Elective courses
Students choosing to a concentration in Professional Selling and Sales Management must also complete four elective courses. Select two elective courses from any of the following courses:
MGMT 3620 Leadership and Personal Development
MGMT 3700 Human Resources Management
MKTG 4272 Consumer Behavior
WMA 3335 Personal Financial Management
Additionally, select two elective courses at the 3000 or 4000 level in any of the following subject areas (ACCT, ENTR, FIN, MGMT, MKTG, MIS, and WMA) with the following exceptions: FIN 3045, FIN 3310, FIN 4211, and ENTR 2710.
For more information
Please contact an
advisor
.
APPLY NOW
REQUEST INFO
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB.