Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/business-bs-marketing-mba-combined-degree/

Skip to content
Business BS, Marketing MBA 4 Plus 1
Home
/
Program
/
Business BS, Marketing MBA 4 Plus 1
The 4 Plus 1 program is offered by the department of marketing, management, and entrepreneurship, Silberman College of Business, at the Florham Campus, Madison, New Jersey, and at the Metropolitan Campus, Teaneck, New Jersey. The college is accredited by AACSB.
Admission Requirements
In order to participate in the 4 Plus 1 program, all students must be current undergraduate students at Fairleigh Dickinson University or an undergraduate student at a partner institution with which Fairleigh Dickinson University has established an articulation agreement for a 4 Plus 1 program.
In order to advance into the graduate portion of the program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Students must formally apply with the
Graduate Advising Office
and be accepted into the graduate portion of the program. For a link to the application, please email
SCBGradAdvising@fdu.edu
.
The GMAT/GRE is not required for students having a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.00 or higher upon completion of the first semester of their junior year. Applicants not satisfying this minimum CGPA requirement are required to submit a GMAT/GRE score taken within the last five years.
MBA only:
Eligibility to waive at least 9 of the MBA Core credits. Students who are not currently in the Silberman College of Business may consider declaring and completing the
Environment of Business minor
.
Acceptance into the program takes place during the sixth semester of the undergraduate program (or three semesters prior to the student’s anticipated undergraduate graduation date). Accepted students will take graduate-level coursework during their last two semesters as undergraduate students. Accepted students must complete their undergraduate degrees before undertaking full-time graduate study during their Plus 1 year.
Graduate Degree Plan
Students complete at least six (6) credits of graduate coursework while still considered an undergraduate student. All remaining graduate coursework is completed during the student’s fifth year.
MBA Core
(34 credits)
Marketing Specialization (9 credits)
MKTG6620
Marketing Research
MKTG6630
Consumer Behavior
MKTG6640
Foundations of Digital Marketing
Other graduate business 4 Plus 1 options
BS – MS in Accounting
BA/BS – MS in Supply Chain Management
BA/BS – MS in Digital Marketing
BA/BS-MBA in Finance
BA/BS-MBA in Leadership and Managing Innovation
BA/BS-MBA in Supply Chain Management
For more information, please email
SCBGradAdvising@fdu.edu
.
APPLY NOW
REQUEST INFO
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB International.