Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bba-business-administration/

Skip to content
Business Administration BBA (Vancouver)
Home
/
Program
/
Business Administration BBA (Vancouver)
The Bachelor of Business Administration is a 120-credit program offered by FDU’s Silberman College of Business. The degree will prepare you to become a leader in business and management — someone who will bring ethical perspectives to any professional environment.
Driven by the needs of global industry, our programming emphasizes professional development and enables our students to maximize their success while in school and long after they graduate. Employers increasingly seek students with a global mindset, who are entrepreneurial in their thinking and actions, and possess strong communication and analytical skills. Just ask those who have come before you and become prominent executives in the world of business.
Your business degree coursework will give you firsthand experience with the business community, providing you with proven methods in financial and strategic analysis, general business planning and implementation.
Program Highlights
The FDU community recognizes that the world of business and the landscape of business education is rapidly being transformed by new technologies and a global pandemic, leading to increased competition, complexity, and change. Our BBA program in Vancouver prepares you for the challenges of cross-border and cross-cultural business, for applying rapidly evolving technologies, for managing scarce resources, and for embracing the societal and environmental responsibilities that increasingly shape our world.
Silberman College at Fairleigh Dickinson University is a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative and strives to foster and nurture positive community impact through the content and pedagogy of our educational programs. Additionally, Silberman College is the only business school in British Columbia to earn a
Level 4 Positive Impact Rating for Business Schools,
which demonstrates that the College works with students to prepare them as global change makers and equips them with the required competences to have a positive impact on society and the world.
AACSB Accredited Program
Our Bachelor of Business Administration program is accredited by AACSB International – The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. This “seal of approval” is the hallmark of excellence in management education and represents the highest standard of achievement for business schools worldwide. The Silberman College of Business at Fairleigh Dickinson University is one of only four AACSB accredited institutions in British Columbia.
International Business Concentration
The International Business concentration prepares students to understand and effectively participate in the management of business firms operating in a multinational environment. Courses examine in-depth theories and applied concepts relevant to conducting business in a competitive global arena.
Students may also elect to take a second concentration in Information Technology (MIS). Please consult with a local academic advisor for more details.
Minor in Digital Marketing
A Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, with an International Business concentration and a minor in Digital Marketing from the Silberman College of Business will prepare students for a career in this dynamic field and will equip you with the knowledge and skills to plan, design and manage a well-integrated marketing strategy This minor focuses on expanding traditional marketing theories and practices to the digital space by analyzing online consumer behavior and designing advertising and promotional strategies through digital and social media, and includes an internship with a local business active in the digital arena.
Minor in Financial Planning & Wealth Management
The 15-credit financial planning and wealth management minor provides an understanding of financial analysis, financial management, and financial systems. Required electives take students on a deeper dive into financial management, including courses in portfolio management and value creation. Recognized by the CFA Institute, which certifies financial professionals, this designation ensures that students receive the highest quality business education, are proficient in the essential areas of study for finance professionals, ethically centered, and prepared for the best jobs in the field.
Minor in Event & Convention Management
This Minor will help students understand the scope of the event and convention industry, the specific skills and knowledge needed to be successful in this segment and learn how it interacts and affects tourism, hospitality, and business. This five-course minor incorporates courses from both the Silberman College of Business and Hospitality & Tourism Management to provide students with the skills they need to become a successful event professional.
Accelerated 4 Plus 1 Combined Degrees
Students can earn both an undergraduate and graduate degree in just five years. This program offers a pathway for motivated and high performing students to earn a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in one year less than it would traditionally take. The master’s part of the degree is currently completed at our New Jersey campus in the USA.
For more information visit:
MBA Core Curriculum
Internship Opportunities
During their last year of study, students have the opportunity to enroll in an internship either for credit or not for credit, within the fields of finance, management, or marketing. This has many benefits as it allows students  to gain valuable work experience, develop and build upon skills, get a foot in the door at a company, etc.
Study Abroad Opportunities and Global Business Experience
Students can travel, meet other people, and learn about other cultures while studying and earning credits towards their degree. Numerous destinations are available including FDU Wroxton (UK), FDU New Jersey (USA), SKKU (Korea), IESEG (France), Zeppelin University (Germany ), University of Monaco, Chengdu (China), and many more.
Career Prospects
Our alumni work in a variety of industries across the country, most notably: A&W, RBC, Scotiabank, Deloitte, KPMG. Surgmed, Partap Forest Products, C.H. Robinson, Intact, Urban Bella, Redgate Software, Century 21, East-West Education Services, Canucks Sports & Entertainment (CSE).
Post Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility: Yes
For international students, if you submit your
study permit application on or after November 1, 2024, you must also meet the new requirements that apply to your situation to be eligible to apply for a PGWP.
If you graduate from a university bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctoral degree program:
Field of study requirement: All fields of study are eligible. There is no additional field of study requirement.
As a university, graduates from all current FDU Vancouver programs, including the Bachelor of Business Administration, are eligible to apply for PGWP.  There is no field of study requirement.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada regulations regarding PGWP are subject to change.  Please visit
the IRCC website
for latest details.
BBA Graduation Requirements
NOTE:  The requirements below are detailed on the
Silberman College of Business’s webpage
. Any student with specific questions should contact the advisor on their home campus.
Curriculum (120 credits)
Business Foundational Courses General Education
DSCI 1234
Mathematics for Business Decisions
DSCI 2029
Intro to Statistics
MIS 1045
Information Technology for Business
ORGS 1100
Ethical Issues in Social Institutions
Business Foundational Courses Business Core
ACCT 2021
Introduction to Financial Accounting
ACCT 2022
Introduction to Managerial Accounting
DSCI 2130
Business Statistics
DSCI 3152
Operations Management
ECON 2001
Introduction to Microeconomics
ECON 2102
Introduction to Macroeconomics
FIN 3250
Principles of Financial Analysis
LAW 2276
Business and the Law
MGMT 2600
Organizational Behavior
MGMT 4160
Strategic Management Forum
MIS 2001
Management Information Systems
MKTG 2120
Principles of Marketing
Restricted Business Core
ENTR 2710
Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Major Required Courses (International Business)
IBUS 3201
Fundamentals of International Business
ECON 4208
International Trade
MGMT 3371
International Management
MKTG 3371
Principles of International Marketing
MIS 4303
Spreadsheet Applications in Business or
MIS 4307
Introduction to E-Business
Major Elective Courses (2 courses)
ENTR 3101
Small Business Management: An Entrepreneurial Perspective
ENTR 3300
E-business for Entrepreneurs
FIN 3330
Personal Financial Management
MGMT 3620
Leadership and Personal Development
MGMT 3700
Human Resources Management
MKTG 3360
Digital Marketing
MKTG 4272
Consumer Behavior
MKTG 3383
Social Media Marketing
MKTG 4365
Marketing Communications
WMA 4350
Investment Planning
WMA 4375
Risk Management & Insurance
WMA 4267
Retirement Planning
WMA 4380
Client Psyc/Financial Planning
BBA Completion Requirements
FACULTY PROFILES
BBA Faculty
BBA Admission Requirements
English Proficiency
Apply Now
Tuition and Fees
Request Info
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB International.