Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-mba-combined/

Skip to content
Business Administration BS, Business Administration MBA 4 Plus 1
Home
/
Program
/
Business Administration BS, Business Administration MBA 4 Plus 1
Admission Requirements
In order to participate in the 4 Plus 1 program, all students must be current undergraduate students at Fairleigh Dickinson University or an undergraduate student at a partner institution with which Fairleigh Dickinson University has established an articulation agreement for a 4 Plus 1 program.
In order to advance into the graduate portion of the program, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Students must formally apply with the
Graduate Advising Office
and be accepted into the graduate portion of the program.
For a link to the application, please email
SCBGradAdvising@fdu.edu
.
The GMAT/GRE is not required for students having a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.00 or higher upon completion of the first semester of their junior year. Applicants not satisfying this minimum CGPA requirement are required to submit a GMAT/GRE score taken within the last five years.
MBA only:
Eligibility to waive at least 9 of the MBA Core credits. Students who are not currently in the Silberman College of Business may consider declaring and completing the
Environment of Business minor
.
Acceptance into the program takes place during the sixth semester of the undergraduate program (or three semesters prior to the student’s anticipated undergraduate graduation date). Accepted students will take graduate-level coursework during their last two semesters as undergraduate students. Accepted students must complete their undergraduate degrees before undertaking full-time graduate study during their Plus 1 year.
Other graduate business 4 Plus 1 options
BS – MS in Accounting
BA/BS – MS in Supply Chain Management
BA/BS – MS in Digital Marketing
BA/BS-MBA in Finance
BA/BS-MBA in Leadership and Managing Innovation
BA/BS-MBA in Marketing
BA/BS-MBA in Supply Chain Management
For more information, please email
SCBGradAdvising@fdu.edu
.