Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-clinical-laboratory-science/

Skip to content
Clinical Laboratory Sciences BS
Home
/
Program
/
Clinical Laboratory Sciences BS
Medical Laboratory Scientists (also known as “Clinical Laboratory Scientists”) are clinical laboratory professionals who play a major role in patient care, providing laboratory data which are crucial for the diagnosis of diseases, the management of patient therapy and maintenance of health. Medical Laboratory scientists perform a wide variety of analytical procedures requiring expertise in state-of-the-art technology and instrumentation, as well as organizational, problem solving and communication skills. Major disciplines in medical technology include clinical chemistry, clinical immunology, clinical microbiology, hematology, and immunohematology. They perform sophisticated chemical, biological, microscopic, and bacteriological tests using some of the most advanced equipment in healthcare. For example, medical laboratory scientists microscopically examine blood, make cultures of fluid or tissues the samples, use computers to verify and organize lab data, and analyze the samples for chemical content or reaction.
Medical Laboratory Scientists have the versatility to be employed in a variety of settings, including hospitals, independent laboratories, clinics, physicians’ offices, local/state and government agencies, pharmaceutical and cosmetic firms, veterinary offices, and research institutions.
Employment rate in various healthcare laboratories in the tri-state area: 100%
Starting salary after degree completion by the Bureau of Labor Statistics: >$70,000
The
Bachelor of Science (BS) in Clinical Laboratory Science
degree will prepare graduates as medical laboratory scientists through a partnership program leading to a BS degree awarded jointly between FDU and
Rutgers University School of Health Professions
. Upon successful completion of the degree requirements, the student will qualify for the examination given by the Board of Registry of the
American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP)
for the
certification as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CLS-ASCP)
.
A clinical training program is required of students who wish to qualify for the examination given by the Board of Registry of the American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP) for the certification as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CLS-ASCP). Rutgers is approved by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (
NAACLS
) to administer this program. Students complete 6 semesters of pre-professional courses at FDU before applying to the 15-month, university-based
Rutgers Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) Clinical Training Program
. Tuition is paid directly to Rutgers during this phase of study. During the clinical training component of the degree program, students learn from experienced faculty and practicing professionals, and are exposed to a wide range of career opportunities at multiple hospitals. Rutgers Medical Laboratory Science Clinical Training Program info-sessions are offered periodically by Program Director Ruth Perez (
ruth.perez@rutgers.edu
). Both FDU and Rutgers will be listed on the graduate’s diploma.
Admission Requirements
Graduates from an accredited secondary school with a record indicating the potential to succeed in college will be considered for admission to the FDU BS in Clinical Laboratory Science.
Completion of the following high school studies:
4 units of English
1 unit of Chemistry + Lab
2 units of History
1 unit of Biology + Lab
2 units of college preparatory Mathematics
At least 16 high school academic units
Secondary school GPA of 2.7 or higher
Admission to Rutgers School of Health Professions
Students will submit a separate application in the fall semester of their sophomore year (second semester of year 2 at FDU).
Admission decisions to Rutgers are made in accordance with criteria, policies and procedures established by a joint committee and cannot be guaranteed by FDU.
Students generally
need to demonstrate at least a 2.85 GPA
in major and prerequisite courses at FDU to be considered for admission to the Rutgers Clinical Laboratory Science program. All prerequisite courses must be completed with a grade of C or higher, and certain prerequisite courses must be completed with a grade of B minus or higher.
Applications are generally reviewed as they are received after the application period opens (November). The first acceptance letters are usually released in mid-December, before the application period ends (February). Applicants are encouraged to apply when the application period opens due to the program’s competitiveness. The clinical training program begins in May, approximately three months after the application period ends.
Students who are not selected for a clinical training program may continue at FDU for a BS in Health Studies. Upon completion of the BS degree, students may again apply for the Rutgers Clinical Training Program to earn a certificate which will allow qualification for the ASCP examination.
Curriculum
(Updated for Fall 2024)
A minimum of 139 credits is required for graduation from this FDU BS in Clinical Laboratory Science (University-Based Training Program) to become a Clinical/Medical Laboratory Scientist.
After completion of 3 years of study at FDU (minimum 94 credits, of which 40 are GenEd and 54 are courses in the major), the program is completed in 15 months at Rutgers University School of Health Professions (additional 45 credits).
**Accuplacer reading/writing scores and math assessment scores will determine which reading/writing and math courses first time, first year students will take.  Those with reading/writing placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., WRIT 1000, WRIT 1001, READ 1000). Those with math placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., MATH 0298, MATH 1100).  These courses are applied toward free electives or are non-credit-bearing.
This requirement applies to all first time, first year students, even if they have been accepted into this program track.
General Education
Requirements (40 credits)
Written & Oral Communication (9 credits)
WRIT1002
Composition I: Rhetoric and Inquiry
WRIT1003
Composition II: Research and Argument
Oral Communication: Select from GenEd options
Information and Technological Literacy (3 credits)
MEDT2217
Info Systems and Applications in Health Care
Ethical Reasoning (3 credits)
MEDT1130
Bioethics
Global and Cultural Understanding
(3 credits)
UNIV2001
Cross-cultural Perspectives
Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (8 credits)
BIOL2203
/
BIOL2223
Anatomy and Physiology I + Lab
MATH1107
Precalculus
Social and Behavioral Analysis (6 credits)
Social Science: Select from GenEd options
Behavioral Science: Select from GenEd options
Inquiry in the Arts & Humanities (6 credits)
Creative & Expressive Arts: Select from GenEd options
Humanities: Select from GenEd options
University Core (2 credits)
UNIV1001
Transitioning to University Life
UNIV1002
Preparing for Professional Life
Major Requirements (54 credits)
BIOL1221
/
BIOL1222
Biological Diversity and Lab
BIOL1223
Biological Diversity Recitation
BIOL1233
/
BIOL1234
Molecules, Cells and Genes + Lab
BIOL1235
Molecules, Cells and Genes Recitation
BIOL3050
/
BIOL3051
or
BIOL4240
/
BIOL4241
Molecular Cell Biology + Lab
BIOL2204
/
BIOL2224
Anatomy and Physiology II + Lab
BIOL3009
/
BIOL3019
or
BIOL3225
/
BIOL3226
Microbiology and Lab
BIOL3100
/
BIOL3101
Genetics + Lab
CALCULUS: Select either
MATH1201
Calculus I or
MATH1203
Calculus I
CHEM1201
/
CHEM1203
General Chemistry I + Lab
CHEM1211
General Chemistry Recitation
CHEM1202
/
CHEM1204
General Chemistry II and Lab
CHEM1212
General Chemistry II Recitation
CHEM2261
/
CHEM2263
Organic Chemistry I and Lab
CHEM2262
/
CHEM2264
Organic Chemistry II and Lab
STATISTICS: Select either
MATH1133
Applied Statistics
OR
PSYC2210
Psychological Statistics
BIOL5306
Immunology
CHEM3281
/
CHEM3389
Biochemistry +Lab
Clinical Training (4th Year) at Rutgers (45 credits)
During the clinical training, students may be asked to report to a laboratory site five days a week.
Other Considerations
FDU offers two four-year degree programs geared to qualifying for and passing the examination by the Board of Registry of the American Society for Clinical Pathology (ASCP) for the certification as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CLS-ASCP). These are the
Clinical Laboratory Sciences BS
(this program) and the
Medical Technology BS
(see other FDU web page). The first three years of the Academic Program Plan for the two degrees are identical, and the courses can be taken at either NJ campus. The fourth year of the Clinical Laboratory Sciences BS is training at Rutgers University and its affiliates. The fourth year of the Medical Technology BS is a hospital-based internship at Valley Hospital (Bergen County), Hackensack Meridian Health Jersey Shore Medical Center (Neptune City), Monmouth Medical Center (Long Branch), or at another approved hospital system. Both the clinical training program at Rutgers University and the hospital-based internship provides appropriate preparation for the ASCP certification as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist. Both are competitive admissions programs.
Clinical Laboratory Sciences BS (University Training Program)
–
The clinical training program at Rutgers School of Health Professions offers a more structured educational experience. Students generally have the opportunity to rotate through different hospitals and experience a range of practice settings. This program can provide a more comprehensive understanding of laboratory medicine and prepare the student for a wider range of career opportunities.
Medical Technology BS (Hospital Internship Program) –
A hospital-based internship offers hands-on experience in a clinical laboratory setting, allowing skills and knowledge to develop under the guidance of working professionals. Students have the opportunity to rotate through different departments within the laboratory, gaining exposure to a variety of laboratory techniques and instrumentation. This experience can be particularly valuable if a student is interested in pursuing a career in a specific area of laboratory medicine. The hospital-based experience, with rotations to multiple departments within the single hospital system, and with many opportunities for hospital personnel to engage the student as a prospective employee, often leads the student to employment in that hospital.
Geography may also play a role in your preference. Valley Hospital is in northern Bergen County. Rutgers School of Health Professions’ main campus is at Rutgers-Newark. The Allied Health faculty and staff at FDU will have at least anecdotal and sometimes statistical guidance about each of these options.
Contact Information
Drew Minardi or Jacqueline Bonaparte
201-692-2388
snah-hs@fdu.edu
Learn more
School of Nursing and Allied Health
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information
Clinical Lab Science BS
CLIN2.MEDLS.RU.TEA
CLIN3.RU.MAD