Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ma-creative-writing-and-literature-for-educators/

Skip to content
Creative Writing and Literature for Educators MA
Home
/
Program
/
Creative Writing and Literature for Educators MA
For Teachers with the Souls of Writers
The First (and only) MA in Creative Writing and Literature for Educators
Expressly designed for high school teachers – as well as aspiring teachers and professors – this advanced degree nurtures your writing while giving you practical tools for using creative writing in the classroom and for teaching literature from a writer’s point of view.
The program is fully online except for one three-day on-campus residency in late June. You’ll never have to compromise your day job! Working at your own pace, you can finish the program in two years or take up to five.
During this year’s online residency, you’ll meet our faculty and fellow students from near and far, and spend time with a distinguished Visiting Writer. Our residency is a program highlight. It’s where students make lasting, supportive relationships with one another and their professors.
Welcome to our community of writers and teachers at Fairleigh Dickinson University!
Program Goals
We’ll take your creative writing abilities to the next level, whatever your level. (We admit students from relative beginners to published authors with multiple books to their credit.) Our writing faculty are National Book Award and Pulitzer Prize finalists; no matter how much experience you have, they’ll be able to help you develop your writing, and market it professionally if you so choose. A basic assumption we make is that being a writer makes you a more effective reader and teacher of literature: you’ll combine your “writerly” insight into process with “readerly” critical approaches to form and content.
We’ll train you to be a confident, constructive, and versatile teacher of creative writing. We want you to be comfortable teaching all the four main genres of creative writing — fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, and drama — and responding helpfully to student work. This program is the perfect preparation if you want to start to teach creative writing, and is the natural next step in professional development if you already do.
We’ll train you to be a master interpreter of literature, who can use creative approaches and creative assignments to get their students fired up and thinking deeply about challenging texts. We’re sensitive to the demands of Common Core and your local curricula, and we’ll help you work within those constraints to get superior results.
Admission Requirements
Students holding undergraduate degrees from an accredited four-year institution in the U.S. or abroad may apply.
When to Apply
Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Applicants can apply by the deadlines below to begin the program according to the timeframe that best meets their schedule. If you would like up-to-date information about the exact dates for the next residency or any session, please email
gradwriting@fdu.edu
.
Application Deadlines:
Apply by August 1 – Begin with the fall semester (late August).
Apply by January 1 – Begin with the spring semester (late January).
Apply by May 1 – Students begin the program in late May with the foundational course, “Reading like a Writer” and take the summer residency in late June.
Apply by June 1– Begin the program with the summer residency in late June or with the second summer session (mid-June).
Important note:
The residency is held once per year in late June and the foundational course, “Reading Like a Writer” is held once per year in the first summer session (mid-May). Students are required to take the residency and the foundational course at the earliest date available after they begin.
2024 Summer Residency – Thursday, June 27
th
to Saturday, June 29
th
2025 Summer Residency – Thursday, June 26
th
to Saturday, June 28
th
How to Apply
Complete the
Graduate Admissions form
and upload the following documents:
A Personal Statement. In at least a couple of paragraphs, and at most a page or two, tell us about your professional background and why you think the program will be a good fit for you. Give us a sense of who you are, and what your goals are, as a teacher and a writer.
A Writing Sample. We also want a sense of how you write. One short story, one chapter of a novel, a few poems, one act of a play, or one article or course paper is a good length – but use a piece you have edited, not a first draft.
Your Transcript verifies your BA or BS degree.
Fill out a
FAFSA online
ASAP if you are interested in financial aid.
GRE and other test scores are NOT required.
Letters of recommendation (personal, professional, or academic) are welcome but are NOT required.
The program is housed on the Florham Campus in Madison, NJ.
Degree Plan
The first foundational course — Reading Like a Writer — introduces the practice of writerly exegesis and the focus on how meaning is created. Students tell us that the residency is the program’s highlight. It’s where students meet their professors and classmates, make long-term connections, and participate in insightful workshops that will give you tools to bring back to your classroom and use in your own writing. The subsequent writing courses are designed specifically to provide both a creative and writerly/analytical experience in each of the major genres the educators are likely to see in student work. The literature courses offer greater breadth and enriched understanding and connection to the advanced readerly aspects of the literature often taught in high school. Specifically, they address:
Areas of the traditional high school curriculum (Shakespeare, young adult literature),
Non-Western literature (African writers, world literature),
Cross/intercultural literature (ethnic American literature), and
To earn the MA degree, students must attend the three-day residency (2 credits) and complete the following seven courses (four credits each) for a total of 30 credits:
Foundation Course: Reading Like a Writer
Four Writing/Critiquing Courses (one from each genre below)
Two Literature Courses (on any topic of interest to you)
Residency and Foundation Course
CWLT8000
Residency
CWLT8001
Reading Like a Writer
Writing/Critiquing Courses
CWLT8101
Fiction
CWLT8102
Poetry
CWLT8103
Creative Non-Fiction
CWLT8104
Dramatic / Cinematic Writing
Literature Courses
CWLT8207
Young-Adult Literature
CWLT8209
International Short Story
CWLT8221
Fantasy, Myth, and the Medieval
CWLT8224
The Art of Adaptation
Special Information
Our tuition is at a deeply discounted rate to accommodate educators.
Program Faculty
David Daniel
, Director of the MA Program in Creative Writing and Literature
Michael Cotto
, Assistant Professor
Matthieu Boyd,
Chair of the Department of Literature, Writing, Language, and Philosophy
Kathleen Graber,
Adjunct
Ethan Joella
, Adjunct
Sara Lautman,
Adjunct
April Patrick,
Assistant Professor of Literature and University Director of Honors
Lia Romeo,
Adjunct
Learn More
Department of Literature, Language, Writing, and Humanities
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information