Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-ma-criminal-justice/

Skip to content
Criminal Justice BA, Criminal Justice MA
Home
/
Program
/
Criminal Justice BA, Criminal Justice MA
The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice offers a combined degree program that affords students the opportunity to combine their undergraduate and graduate studies. With the approval of their academic advisor and the program director, students can take up to two designated graduate courses that fulfill the requirements for both undergraduate and graduate degrees, thus accelerating completion of their Master of Arts in Criminal Justice.
Admission requirements
Students opting for the combined degree program must meet the minimum admission requirements for students applying to the graduate program in criminal justice as set forth in the current issue of the Graduate Studies Bulletin; the only exception of having obtained their baccalaureate degree.
It is recommended that students interested in the combined degree program declare their candidacy upon successful completion of 64 credits and/or upon entering their junior year; however, no later than having completed 90 undergraduate credits. This affords students the opportunity to collaborate with their advisor in the timely and appropriate selection of undergraduate and graduate courses.
To qualify for the combined program in Criminal Justice, students must possess and maintain a minimum of a 3.00 overall cumulative grade point average (CGPA), a 3.25 grade point average (GPA) within the criminal justice major, and be able to demonstrate a proficiency in writing. Students in the combined degree program must maintain a minimum of a 3.00 GPA in the graduate courses for which they have been approved.
Program Learning Objectives
At the completion of the MA, students will:
Be able to demonstrate a thorough knowledge and understanding of (1) administration of justice, (2) corrections, (3) criminological theory, (4) law adjudication, (5) law enforcement, and (6) research and analytic methods.
Be able to demonstrate critical thinking, skeptical inquiry, and the scientific approach to problem solving by selecting and organizing information, identifying assumptions and causal relationships, distinguish between verifiable facts and value claims, determine the credibility of sources, distinguish between warranted or unwarranted reasons or conclusions, detect biases, and evaluate appropriate problem solving strategies, their feasibility and efficacy.
Be able to communicate effectively, in writing and verbally, the conventions of the English language in a clear, concise, articulate, literate, and professional manner consistent with those of college writing and those specific to the discipline of law and criminal justice.
Be able to use, manage, understand, and evaluate technologies to aid and solve practical problems. It involves possessing the knowledge and ability to access and research information utilizing contemporary technologies (hardware and software), as well as the ability to identify and discern qualified data, academic knowledge and information from unqualified data, non-academic knowledge and information.
Be able to identify, evaluate, assess, and employ appropriate legal, ethical, and professional behaviors and practices within all aspects of their life, including, but not limited to an academic and criminal justice environment.
Degree Plan
NOTE: All students are required to complete the General Education Requirements of their campus in fulfillment of their bachelor’s degree requirements.
Required Undergraduate Courses (36 credits)
CRIM1101
Intro. to Criminal Justice
CRIM1102
Criminology & Social Theory
CRIM2100
Professional & Legal Writing
CRIM2201
Police and Society
CRIM2202
Corrections, Parole and Probation
CRIM2204
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
CRIM2205
CJ Research Methods
CRIM2208
Victimology
CRIM3319
Courts and Judicial Process
CRIM6000
Criminal Justice
CRIM6010
U.S. Constitution, Public Policy and Criminal Justice
Any CRIM 6000 or 7000 level course (3 credits)
Major Electives (12 credits)
Students in the BA/MA Combined Degree Program are advised to confer with their advisor before registering for elective courses.
Master’s Degree Courses (24 credits)
CRIM6005
Advanced Criminological Theory
CRIM6015
Research Methods in Criminal Justice and Criminology
CRIM6020
Statistics and Data Analysis Graduate Electives (15 credits)
15 credits of graduate electives may be selected from any CRIM 6000 or 7000 level courses, in consultation with the advisor.
Note: It is recommended that
CRIM6020
Statistics and Data Analysis serve as a prerequisite to
CRIM6015
Research Methods.
Contact Information
For more information, please contact:
Elizabeth Panuccio, PhD
elizpanu@fdu.edu
201-692-2577
Learn more
Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information