Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-criminology/

Skip to content
Criminology BA
Home
/
Program
/
Criminology BA
Criminology is the study of the root causes of crime and deviant behavior in society. Early criminologists believed that crime was a choice based on an individual’s free will, but the field expanded to include biological, psychological and sociological explanations of crime. Poverty, family structure, and capitalism are among some of the widely debated root causes of crime. Criminologists consider what motivates offenders as well as the impact of crime on victims and society as a whole. By studying the causes of crime, criminologists can offer practical solutions to reduce or even prevent certain types of crime. Criminologists have been instrumental in evaluating criminal justice policies such as Megan’s Laws, mandatory sentencing for drug offenders and Three Strikes laws.
Our courses also focus on national and international systems of law; comparative punishment and the administration of justice; and the various mechanisms of law enforcement and control at the local, state, federal and international levels. Additional courses we offer focus on international social and political problems which underlie current issues in international criminal law.
Criminology graduates, with the combination of a strong theoretical background and a practical skill set, will be well-prepared for advanced graduate studies and law school, as well as a variety of careers in state and federal law enforcement, investigation, victim advocacy, policy research and analysis. This degree offers students the opportunity to pursue a future in one of the most exciting, diverse and fastest growing fields.
Program Highlights
Some distinctive features of our program include:
Practical competency in the fields of criminology, law enforcement, and public policy;
Small classes emphasizing student participation (our average class size is 20, with upper division classes averaging 12);
Close working relationships with teachers
through independent studies, student-faculty research, activities outside of class, and individual mentoring and advising;
Preparation for life after graduation
through internships, study abroad, and developing the critical thinking, data analysis, and problem solving skills relevant to a range of professions.
Program Learning Objectives
At the conclusion of the program, graduates will be able to:
Explain major criminological paradigms and theories.
Apply major crime policies.
Apply basic research methods in criminology.
Explain the fundamentals of criminal justice system.
Degree Plan
NOTE: All students are required to complete the General Education Requirements of their campus in fulfillment of their Bachelor degree requirements.
Required courses (18 credits)
CMLGY 1201
Introduction to Sociology
CMLGY 1306
Introduction to Crime & Criminology
CMLGY 2203
Research Methods in Criminology
CMLGY 2307
Social Deviance
CMLGY 3309
Policy Analysis
CMLGY 3997
Internship in Criminology (
See Criminology Internships
)
Elective courses (18 credits)
The elective courses vary by semester, but some of the options include the following:
CMLGY 2300
Wrongful Convictions
CMLGY 2503
Crime & Media
CMLGY 3012
Crisis Intervention
CMLGY 3030
Surveillance and Security
CMLGY 3301
Women and Crime
CMLGY 3308
Law & Society
CMLGY 2317
Probation & Parole
CMLGY 2333
Criminal Law
CMLGY 3205
Responses to Mass Violence
CMLGY 3310
Juvenile Delinquency
Contact Information
Jordan Nowotny, Department Chair
nowotny@fdu.edu
Learn more
Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information