Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-degree-completion/

Skip to content
Degree Completion BA
Home
/
Program
/
Degree Completion BA
The
Bachelor of Arts Degree Completion Program
, also known as the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies or BAIS, is a baccalaureate degree program structured to meet the educational needs of adult learners. Designed for busy adults, the degree provides non-traditional students with a variety of options in meeting University requirements for an undergraduate degree grounded in the liberal arts. The degree is ideally suited to employed adult learners who have already earned some college credit. FDU will accept up to 90 credits, of the 120 required for the degree, from other sources. Students who receive the full 90 credits may complete the degree in as little as 18 months. The program recognizes the value of life/work experience and affords students the opportunity to receive advanced standing through portfolio assessment.
Students in the program may choose to pursue a single area of study in-depth or design a program of study by combining liberal arts courses with career-related specializations in a subject that matches their professional goals or personal interests. The result is a degree program that will be immediately appealing to mature adults who bring to FDU traditional course work completed over a period of years at a number of institutions, a history of work and life experiences that can be equated with credit-bearing courses, and the desire, commitment and self-discipline to complete the degree requirements.
Program highlights
Offered fully online, as well as in-person and blended courses
Transfer up to 90 credits from prior learning
Career focused specializations in areas such as applied technology, business, communications, digital media arts, healthcare administration, homeland security, hospitality, human resource management, liberal studies, public administration, technology and sustainability
Personal attention from faculty with extensive industry experience
Want to learn more about the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies? Please see the
School of Professional Studies
.
Contact Information
Valerie Abrunzo, Admin Asst for the School of Professional Studies
201.692.2620
vabrunzo@fdu.edu
Learn more
School of Professional Studies
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information