Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ma-educational-leadership/

Skip to content
Educational Leadership MA
Home
/
Program
/
Educational Leadership MA
MA in Educational Leadership program’s design and curriculum are based on the demands facing today’s schools with a focus on developing a vision of a school as a community of learners.
The FDU Educational Leadership Program is proud to offer a 33-credit MA program that develops leaders who guide their schools to
pursue excellence and equity as twin goals. We know that excellent schools in which all students can achieve must break the link between achievement and race, gender, disability, and first language. FDU
emphasizes rigor and access for leadership candidates. Within one year, candidates are eligible for their
Supervisor Certificate. Within two years, they are eligible for their Principal Certificate. We also consider cost in terms
of access. This is a reduced tuition program.
In one year, candidates earn the NJ Supervisor Certificate.
In two years, candidates earn the NJ Principal Certificate and an MA in Educational Leadership.
A faculty advisor will work closely with candidates to monitor their program and course selections
Admissions requirements
All candidates who want to be considered for admission must meet the following criteria:
Submit a formal FDU application to graduate admissions
Submit a standard teaching certificate
Submit a 500 to 1000-word personal statement explaining why you are pursuing school leadership
Submit all undergraduate and graduate transcripts from previous university coursework
Submit two letters of recommendation
Arrange for an interview with an Educational Leadership advisor
Student Outcomes
The Educational Leadership Program produces leadership candidates who are:
Qualified to serve as educational leaders;
Competent in decision making;
Caring educational leaders;
Technologically proficient;
Culturally responsive to the diverse needs of the learning community in which they work;
Reflective of what they have learned and what they need to learn;
Prepared to become certified as administrators.
Degree Plan
Note:
EDUC6702
,
EDUC6703
,
EDUC6757,
EDUC6758
are required for Supervisor’s Certification.
Fall I
EDUC6702
Curriculum and Instruction: Theory and Practice
EDUC6703
Supervision of Instruction & Personal education
EDUC6761
Research Informed School Transformation for Leaders
Spring I
EDUC6757
Leading Inclusive Schools
EDUC6758
Data-Informed Leadership
EDUC6760
Leading for Equity and Excellence
Summer I
EDUC6759
Leading for Equity and Excellence
EDUC6716
School Finance/Facilities/Scheduling
Fall II
EDUC5720
Field-Based Internship I
EDUC6720
Field-Based Internship Seminar I
EDUC6717
School Law
Spring II
EDUC5721
Field-Based Internship II
EDUC6721
Field-Based Internship Seminar II,
Our course schedule is meant to maximize access for busy educators who want to advance their careers.
Online =
Asynchronous online plus 4 synchronous video conferences.
Summer Intensive
=
9 days of 4 hours per day. Two weeks following July 4th
Supervisor Certificate
The Educational Leadership Program offers the four required courses for students to obtain the State of NJ Supervisor’s Certificate. In order to be eligible for the certificate, the student must have a Master’s Degree (in any area), three years of teaching experience and complete the four required courses.
The four required courses are:
EDUC6702
Curriculum and Instruction
EDUC6703
Supervision of Instruction
EDUC6757
Leading Inclusive Schools
EDUC6758
Data-Informed Leadership.
Students who do not yet have an MA may take these courses in conjunction with various MA programs offered by the School of Education  These four courses are also offered in the Master of Arts for Certified Teacher Program.
School Administrator Certificate
The Education Leadership Program offers the two required courses for student to obtain the State of NJ School Administrator Certificate required for district-level leadership such as superintendent, assistant superintendent, or director. The student must have a Master’s Degree (in any area), 30 credits of graduate study in school leadership (as above), the Praxis II assessment, and five years successful experience as an educator. The two required courses are:
EDUC5728
School Administrator Field-Based Internship
EDUC6728
School Administrator Field-Based Internship Seminar
Highlights
Demonstrating Leadership for Excellent and Equitable Schools
Equity Audit and Briefing
Candidates examine their schools or districts to determine the school demographics, the various ways that students are labeled via MTSS, disability categories, gifted and talented, English Language Learners, etc. They then describe their organization’s strengths, challenges, and identify best practices to respond to strengths and challenges, and areas for further inquiry. The final product for this is a briefing to be provided to school-based stakeholders.
Master Schedule Development
Constructing a master schedule for one school can be challenging. This assignment extends that challenge to the real-world necessity to coordinate other schools for shared services. FDU leadership candidates are required to consult with all principals in their district at a given level—elementary, middle, or high school
to develop a master schedule that will meet their school’s needs and also effectively and efficiently share services with sister schools.
Data Informed Problem of Practice Audit and Briefing
Similar to the Equity Audit and Briefing, candidates investigate their school or district’s data policies and practices. They identify strengths, challenges, fitting best practices appropriate to those strengths and challenges, and priorities for further inquiry. Again, they may present a mock briefing in class or receive extra credit for presenting in-district with FDU faculty present.
Research-Informed School Transformation
Through action research and improvement science, candidates learn best practices for continuous school improvement on vexing problems of practice.
Rigor in the  300 hour Internship
Develop strong relationships with mentors,
See medium- and long-term projects to completion, and
Experience a breadth of leadership opportunities in their schools and districts
Contact Information
Program Director
Dr. Joshua Bornstein, Associate Professor of Educational Leadership
(201) 357-0381
bornsteinj@fdu.edu
Learn more
School of Education
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information