Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-film-and-animation-film/

Skip to content
Film and Animation BA (film concentrations)
Home
/
Program
/
Film and Animation BA (film concentrations)
About the Program
The Film Major gives students a full overview of all the aspects of creating a moving image story as a movie, video, internet content, or TV episode. Students begin shooting with HD cameras their first year while taking both film history and film appreciation courses. The course of study continues with screenwriting, advance production, and post-production courses but then allows students to further explore their particular interests with a wide range of major electives. Internships and independent studies are also available.
Potential Career Paths
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, graduates with a BA in Film can pursue a variety of career paths including:
Directing
Cinematography
Post-production
Screen Writing
Art Directing
Media Research
Media and Film Criticism
Program Learning Outcomes
Technical Film Production: Graduates will be able to perform the technical skills required in film production and post-production environments.
Film History: Graduates will be able to integrate historical and cultural knowledge with film production.
Film Language: Graduates will be able to utilize the concepts of film language in their professional life.
Screenwriting: Graduates will be able to apply effective screenwriting techniques and formatting skills.
Knowledge of Business of TV/Film Industry: Graduates will be able to apply knowledge of business and industry practices to the development of works in television and film media.
Present Orally: Graduates will be able to present film concepts, principles, and practices in oral form.
Apply
Scholarships
Visit FDU
Major Requirements
The film major and all concentrations share 27 credits of FILM requirements, which means that students can commit to one of the concentrations as late as their junior year. In the last of the required courses, FILM 4312, each student will work in the area of their concentration.
FILM 3350 Twentieth Century Cinema
FILM 1501 Cinematic Storytelling
FILM 1005 Filmmaking I: Basic Production
FILM 2208 Filmmaking II: The Professional Crew
FILM 2250 Screenwriting I
FILM 3210 Postproduction I
FILM 3209 Filmmaking III: Mastering the Art and Craft of Film Production
FILM 4311 Producing and Directing the Thesis Film
FILM 4312 Producing and Directing the Thesis Film II
Electives in the Film Major (15 to 18 credits)
Note: Three credits in an internship may be used to fulfill elective credits.
FILM courses
CINE courses
Directing Concentration
Students in the film directing concentration focus on all the various aspects a director must consider and incorporate into their storytelling process. Besides learning to break down and visually approach a film project, directing students will study how to work with and direct actors, the pre-production process, the importance of telling a story visually, and recognizing how their work may fit into the larger picture of culture and society.
Directing students work their entire senior year on making their senior thesis films, which receive an exciting and widely attended public screening at a local movie theater!
Requirements for the Directing concentration (9 credits)
CINE 2350 The American Film Director
FILM 3363 Film Directing
THEA 1110 Basic Acting for non-majors (Any FILM survey or auteur course substitutes for this course)
Electives in the Directing concentration (6 to 9 credits)
Note: Three credits in an internship may be used to fulfill elective credits.
FILM courses
CINE courses
Editing and Post Production Concentration
The Editing and Post Production Concentration is a rigorous course of study for students who have a special interest in the art and science of editing film. Whether working in Avid, Premiere, Final Cut, or any other non-linear editing system, the concepts, concerns, and artistic approaches to achieving the final edit remain the same. The Core Major Requirements are the same as the standard Film Major, thus students may elect this concentration as late as their junior year. The Editing Concentration requirements, which are a mix of cross-discipline courses, educate students in the craft and practice of post-production, enabling them to work as editors on senior student film projects to build a reel and help start them on a future career working professionally in the post-production industry.
Requirements for the Editing and Post Production concentration (9 credits)
ANIM 1750 Motion Graphics with After Effects
FILM 3212 Postproduction II
FILM 2214 Audio for Film and Video
FILM 4465 Client Driven Production (as post-production) or
FILM 3430 Reality TV Production
(as post) or
FILM 2255 TV News & Magazine production
(as post)
Electives in the Editing and Post Production concentration (6 to 9 credits)
Note: Three credits in an internship may be used to fulfill elective credits.
FILM courses
CINE courses
Cinematography Concentration
The Cinematography Concentration at FDU is unique and one of the only ones offered in undergraduate programs. Our alumni work in the industry and have made our program highly regarded and recognized in the profession.
The Cinematography Concentration is a rigorous course of study for students who have a special interest in the art and science of photographing the moving image. Whether the capture medium is film, video, or a new digital process, the concepts, concerns, and artistic approaches to achieving the right visual imagery are the same. The Core Major Requirements are the same as the standard Film Major, thus students may elect this concentration as late as their junior year. The Cinematography Concentration requirements, which are a mix of cross-discipline courses, educate students in the craft and practice of cinematography, enabling them to work as the Director of Photography on senior thesis film projects to build a camera reel and help start them on a future career working professionally in the camera and lighting industry.
Requirements for the Cinematography concentration (9 credits)
FILM 3211
Cinematography: Lighting
FILM 3214 Cinematography: Camerawork
FILM 3430 Reality TV Production
(as camera) or
FILM 2255 TV News & Magazine production
(as camera) or
FILM4465  Corporate Video Production I
(as camera/lighting)
ART1191 Photography I
Electives in the Cinematography concentration (6 credits)
Note: Three credits in an internship may be used to fulfill elective credits.
FILM courses
CINE courses
Producing Concentration
The Producing concentration allows students to pursue the organizational and business skills required of the producer in the film industry. Available courses within the discipline now include the study of Producing for Film, Television, and Streaming Content, as well as Distribution in all media formats. The Producing concentration allows students to incorporate coursework from Business and Communications, creating an interdisciplinary approach for those seeking to pursue this area of study.
Requirements for the Producing Concentration (6 credits)
FILM3426 Producing Movies
FILM3427 Distributing Movies and Media
Electives in the Producing Concentration (6 credits)
Note: Three credits in an internship may be used to fulfill elective credits.
FILM courses
CINE courses
Contact Information
Contact
Howard Libov, Chair of Visual and Perform Arts
libovh@fdu.edu
Academics
School of the Arts
FDU Film
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information