Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/mfa-film/

Skip to content
Film MFA
Home
/
Program
/
Film MFA
Welcome to the MFA in Film program
Low residency by design since 2018
The low-residency MFA in Film at FDU offers online courses during the semester, and two 9-day on-campus residencies each year, held in the summer and winter. It has all the rewards of a full-time experience and all the flexibility of a low-residency program. The program’s innovative structure allows students to learn all phases of filmmaking, from screenwriting and scheduling, through production, editing, and distribution – without re-locating or losing their day job.
The fall semester focuses on the ‘portfolio project’, usually a feature-length screenplay or business plan for a film or streaming series which the student will develop throughout their entire program.
Winter residencies are devoted to developing scripts, including table readings with actors, scene blocking for dramatic action and camera coverage, and selecting films for production during the upcoming summer residency. During the spring semester, all pre-production preparations get underway.
Summer residencies are dedicated to an intense production experience and setting up the post-production workflow and scheduling.
“I gained invaluable experience through this residency, which truly helped tie together all the lectures and assignments. The staff, fellow classmates, and undergraduates were extremely knowledgeable and helpful, making it a seamless production experience [with very few hiccups].”
-Christopher Branch, MFA 2026
To earn their degree, students attend four residencies and eight online courses; the program can be completed in two years.
Upcoming residency dates
2025 Winter:
January 12-17
2025 Summer:
June 13-21
Learn more about the Master of Fine Art in Film
Facilities
Faculty
Program Learning Outcomes
Screen Language:
Understand the difference between shooting action and creating screen language.
Screenwriting:
Understand how to use the screenwriting format to communicate action, internal thought, and conflict.
Producing:
Understand standard industry practices of organizing, financing, planning, and exploiting filmed material.
Directing:
Understand the preparation and execution of film to capture all of the action, conflict, and emotional content required using all tools available to them, including but not limited to actors, props, locations, and how to hire and work with talented collaborators.
Cinematography:
Understand how to use visual references to support the story, including but not limited to historical accuracy, wardrobe design, production design, light, and movement.
Post Production:
Understand how to use filmed material, and make best use of intended and unintended possibilities to create meaning to realize the material’s full potential.
Admissions Forms
Apply Now
Visit FDU
Request Information
Admissions
Application Deadlines
Fall semester –
Apply by August 1
Winter residency –
Apply by November 15
Spring semester –
Apply by December 1
Summer residency –
Apply by May 15
Students can begin the program with a residency on our Florham Campus held in summer or winter or with the fall or spring semester online courses.  Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis.
Upcoming residency dates
2024 Winter:
January 14-19
2024 Summer:
June 7-15
Admissions Requirements
Students holding undergraduate degrees from an accredited four-year institution in the U.S. or abroad may apply. Applicants should have a cumulative GPA of 2.75 or better on a 4.0 scale.
To Apply
Choose a start date of fall, winter, spring, or summer. Complete the
FDU Application
online.
Choose your concentration: screenwriting, producing, directing, cinematography, or editing.
Official transcripts
verifying your undergraduate degree should be sent by your college to the Graduate Admissions Office.
Once you complete and submit the application form, the system will prompt you to upload other required documents.
Upload a statement of purpose to your application. Please tell us more about yourself and why you wish to pursue an MFA in Film
Upload your portfolio or a link to your portfolio. If your portfolio is too large, email
gradfilm@fdu.edu
for details. We will direct you to our server.
You can submit a film work (.mov or QT file), a screenplay, stage play, or creative writing document (Use PDF or MS Word format. Please paginate and put your name on every page). Portfolios may contain live-action film material, screenplays, or other written narrative work. Work from other disciplines can be submitted — be it animation, playwriting, photography, graphic design, or fine arts.
Letters of recommendation are welcome, but not required. They can be uploaded to the application or sent to
gradfilm@fdu.edu
Complete the
FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid)
online asap if you require financial aid. You don’t have to accept any funds unless you choose to. Many graduate students are eligible for State and/or Federal loans and aid. Our Financial Aid Office (974-443-8704) can assist with this.
In making admissions decisions, the greatest weight is given to screenwriting samples, completed film projects, festivals, professional recognition, and employer recommendations. The work-related experience will also be taken into consideration. While admission will not require the undergraduate major to have been in a film-related field, creativity demonstrated while an undergraduate, or in professional work environments, will be considered.
Prospective students may also arrange a meeting with the program director to discuss program options and tour the film facilities.
MFA in Film Curriculum
The degree takes a minimum of two years to complete. Students have up to five years to finish. Four on-campus residencies, eight online courses, and a completed thesis are required for the degree. A total of 60 credits are required to graduate.
Room and board are included in your residency fee. Students are responsible for their travel to and from the residency. For information on tuition, please see the
Graduate tuition and fees
page. The MFA in Film tuition is located under the “Per Credit” heading. If you have any questions, feel free to email
gradfilm@fdu.edu
.
Course Requirements
Over the course of their studies, students complete four nine-day residencies held on the Florham Campus, Madison, NJ campus. The residencies are held twice a year in the summer and winter sessions. All courses (including residencies) are 5 credits each.
FILM5000
MFA in Film Residency.
Two 8-week online courses are run consecutively each semester. In the first semester, students take the foundation course, FILM7015 – Story, Cinema & Screen Language, and the first of 4 courses in their concentration. Students choose their concentration when they apply.
Each semester, students choose one of the following “Essentials” courses from the list below for a total of 3 essential courses. The Editing/Post Production Essentials course is required:
FILM6000
Screenwriting Essentials
FILM6001
Producing Essentials
FILM6002
Directing Essentials
FILM6003
Cinematography Essentials
FILM6004
Editing/Post Production Essentials (required)
Below is an
example
of a two-year sequence for a student beginning with a summer residency. Students can begin the program in summer, fall, winter, or spring.
Year one, 30 credits
Summer on-campus residency
Fall term:
Story, Cinema, and Screen Language (foundation course)
Course in concentration
Winter on-campus residency
Spring term:
Course in Concentration
Essentials course (Editing/Post Production or choose one)
Year two, 30 credits
Summer on-campus residency
Fall term:
Course in Concentration
Essentials course (Editing/Post Production or choose one)
Winter on-campus residency
Spring term:
Course in Concentration
Essentials course (Editing/Post Production or choose one)
Professional workshops and internships are available
ZGC Film & Digital Equipment
Shadowstone Studios: Media, Film & Entertainment Lighting
Butter Tree Studios: Film & Sound Stages
New Jersey Theater Alliance (Actor Access)
MediaMix Studios: Studio, Location, Post-Production, Rentals
Writers Guild of America, East
New Jersey Film Commission, Steve Gorelick, David Schoner, Directors
Contact Information
For More Information, including tuition costs, email us.
Gracelyn Weaver, Coordinator
gradfilm@fdu.edu
Howard Libov, Director
gradfilm@fdu.edu
MFA in Film
Fairleigh Dickinson University
285 Madison Ave
M-DBO-01
973-443-8632
Film Brochure (PDF)
Academics
School of the Arts
FDU Film
Faculty
Admissions
Apply Now
Visit FDU
Request Information