Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/mba-finance/

Skip to content
Finance (MBA)
Home
/
Program
/
Finance (MBA)
Academic Information
Silberman College of Business
Department
MBA Core Curriculum
Financial concerns are a part of nearly every organizational decision, whether the organization is a business firm, non-profit organization or government agency. For that reason, financial executives are of central importance to overall planning and control. Even non-financial executives must know enough finance to effectively oversee financial concerns within their areas of expertise.
The MBA in Finance at Fairleigh Dickinson University provides students with the concepts and tools for participating in the financial decision-making process for a variety of businesses and organizations that require special understanding of financial analysis, financial management and financial systems. Students are prepared to evaluate and recommend financial strategies available to them in oral and written form.
Students pursue a broad range of studies to enable them to develop personally and in their profession. The program provides the flexibility for students to choose the several sub-areas within finance where they can specialize for their potential career needs.
This specialization is offered through Silberman College of Business on both Fairleigh Dickinson University’s Florham Campus (Madison, NJ) and Metropolitan Campus (Teaneck, NJ). Silberman College of Business holds prestigious accreditation by AACSB International — the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business – which recognizes the quality of its faculty, academic programs and resources. Less than a quarter of all U.S. business schools hold this recognition, adding value to your graduate business degree from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Career Opportunities in Finance
Whether student interests lie in the area of securities, banking, or insurance industries or that of a financial professional, the job opportunities in the field of finance have never been more promising.
Graduates of the finance program receive an educational foundation for a variety of positions, including treasurer, controller, stock broker, commodities trader, financial planner, cash manager, pension fund manager, insurance adjuster and other positions in investment and banking. Opportunities also exist for advancement to middle and senior management positions in the public, private and government sectors. Other jobs for finance majors include: credit manager, sales, trust administer, financial planning and management, real estate, corporate financial management, risk management and insurance, marketing and securities.
Special Features
Students are encouraged to work with the faculty on research projects. Varied coursework, state-of-the-art finance trading labs with Bloomberg software, well-equipped lecture rooms provide finance students with a solid preparation for entry into the world of finance and for career advancement.
In addition, the proximity to New York City — the financial capital of the world — offers the opportunity for on-site visits to institutions such as the World Bank, the U.S. Treasury, the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ, the American Stock Exchange, the United Nations, and Wall Street. Guest speakers from Jefferies Securities, New York Stock Exchange, United Nations, CDnow.com and Music Boulevard have in turn visited the University.
Silberman College of Business offers students state-of-the-art computer resources and access to the University’s extensive online research library and databases from any where in the world at any time.
Finance Specialization Requirements
In addition to the
core curriculum
, students wanting a specialization in finance take three additional finance courses:
FIN 6600 Financial Markets and Instruments
FIN 6601 Strategic Global Corporate Finance
FIN 6605 Investment and Portfolio Management
Learn More
Contact the
SCB Graduate Advising
offices.
APPLY NOW
Interested in Silberman College of Business?
First Name*
Last Name*
Email Address*
Confirm Email Address*
Program of Interest*
Program of Interest*
MBA Programs
MBA for Executives
MS in Accounting: Track A
MS in Accounting (for non-accountants)
MS in Digital Marketing
MS in Supply Chain Management
MS in Taxation
Certificate Programs
Undecided
Have a specific question? Let us know:
FDU Wordpress Source
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB International.