Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ma-forensic-psychology/

Skip to content
Forensic Psychology MA
Home
/
Program
/
Forensic Psychology MA
The aim of the Forensic Psychology MA program at Fairleigh Dickinson University (FDU) is twofold: 1) students will be prepared for competent entry-level practice in health service psychology within clinical forensic settings, and 2) students will be highly positioned for matriculation in doctoral programs in clinical psychology, including those with forensic tracks/concentrations.
The program is sequential, cumulative, and streamlined to allow students to obtain their MA degree in 1.5 years. Students complete coursework covering various areas of clinical and forensic psychology. Students gain invaluable clinical experience through the completion of a 300-hour externship placement and have the option to participate in forensic research. Students must pass the comprehensive examination in the final semester of the program.
Program Highlights
Typical class sizes are small (10-15 students) in order to create a dynamic and interactive learning experience. Our student-to-faculty ratio is typically 10:1.
All applicants accepted to the program will pay a reduced tuition rate to ensure accessible education. Tuition for the 2024-2025 year is currently $672 per credit for a total program cost of $24,192. Please note, that the costs are subject to change; please contact the Financial Aid department for more information regarding financial costs and assistance.
Students have the option to participate in a week-long study abroad trip to FDU’s campus in Wroxton, England.
The GRE exam is
not
required when applying to this program, and there is no application fee for domestic applicants.
Inclusive Student Recruitment and Support Initiatives
As a Hispanic-serving institution, we are committed to recognizing and supporting the diverse identities of our students, including race, religion, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, sex, ability status, age, nationality, and socioeconomic class. We are committed to ensuring that diversity is an integral part of our curriculum, discussions, and interactions. We encourage open dialogue about diversity and equity at any stage of your journey with us. We are dedicated to providing multiple avenues for students to voice opinions or concerns and to ensuring that our faculty are culturally humble and responsive in all interactions with students.
Admission Requirements
Admissions requirements for the Forensic Psychology M.A. Program:
Online graduate school application.
Curriculum vitae.
A personal statement clearly explaining your fit for the program, your interests in forensic psychology, and your career goals.
Unofficial transcript(s) from all institutions attended. Applicants must have completed coursework in: Introductory Psychology, Statistics, and Psychopathology. Although there is no minimum GPA required, competitive applicants typically have a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher. Official transcripts should be submitted at a later date upon acceptance to the program.
Two letters of recommendation (preferably from professors, although one may be submitted from a supervisor from a practicum, internship, or research experience).
*Students who attend the Forensic Psychology M.A. program who apply to FDU’s Clinical Psychology Ph.D. program receive an automatic interview during the application process. Students must ensure they otherwise meet the application requirements and must submit all documentation required by the Clinical Psychology Ph.D. program (e.g., GRE; letters of recommendation, transcripts). The application requirements are found on the program’s website:
https://www.fdu.edu/program/phd-clinical-psychology/
Application Process:
The deadline for submitting your online application is
March 1st
.
Official transcripts can be sent after acceptance to the program but must be submitted before July 15th.
Letters of recommendation should be submitted via the online application; alternatively, they can also be sent via email to grad@fdu.edu or mailed to the Graduate Admissions Office.
There is
no application fee
for applying to the program for domestic applicants.
International applicants should contact International Admissions for information on the International Admissions process, fees, etc.
To apply, please visit:
https://www.fdu.edu/admissions/apply-now/
Degree Plan
Our program utilizes a cumulative and sequential model, by which all students enter the program in the Fall semester and follow a standardized order of coursework and program requirements. The curriculum consists of 36 credits offered over 1.5 years (including one summer session). A grade of B- or higher is required for passing each of the above classes at the graduate level. Students must also demonstrate the minimum level of achievement for Discipline-Specific Knowledge and Profession-Wide Competencies required by our program; the program’s Student Handbook contains detailed information about these requirements.
Students are required to take two comprehensive examinations (Psychopathology and Forensic Psychology) during the final semester of the program. Students must pass examination questions in order to graduate from the program. Further information regarding the comprehensive examination process is located in our Student Handbook.
Students must complete a 300-hour externship (practicum) placement. The externship is typically completed during the 3rd (last) semester while students are completing their final 3-credit course in the program (PSYC724 Ethical Issues in Forensic Practice). Although students are only required to pay the equivalent of one 3-credit course for their externship, this field placement typically occupies the time equivalent of four courses (e.g., a minimum of 20 hours per week). Students will also attend a weekly group supervision by a licensed clinical psychologist as part of the externship course. Students must successfully complete the externship and demonstrate the minimum level of achievement on the supervisor evaluation form to graduate from the program.
1
st Semester (Fall)
PSYC6114
Psychopathology
PSYC6230
Introduction to Forensic Psychology
PSYC6231
Psychological Bases of Criminal Behavior
PSYC6121
Statistics and Research Methods
†
2nd Semester (Spring)
PSYC7220
Individual and Cultural Diversity
PSYC7230
Forensic Assessment and Prediction
PSYC6130
Interviewing Techniques
PSYC6227
Clinical Practice in Forensic Contexts
Summer Session
PSYC7244
Advanced Seminar in Forensic Psychology
†
PSYC7243
Special Topics in Forensic Psychology*
†
3rd Semester (Fall)
PSYC7234
Ethical Issues in Forensic Practice
†
PSYC7240
Externship in Forensic Psychology (3-credit course with a required minimum of 300 hours at an external site)
*Students are strongly encouraged, though not required, to enroll in the section of this course that includes a week-long trip to study in England.
†
Course is held fully online.
Students are permitted to transfer in a maximum of six credits from prior graduate-level programs in psychology. If students wish to have transfer credits considered, they must send the syllabus of the course(s) to the Director for approval. The course content must closely map to the content covered in the course the student wishes to use to transfer credits towards.
Clinical Placements
Students are required to complete a 300-hour clinical placement. Students have completed externships at a range of forensic and clinical sites, including prisons/jails, law enforcement settings, courts, psychiatric or forensic hospitals, outpatient treatment programs, private practices, and more. Students must complete and pass a background check and obtain liability insurance before any externship placement; the cost associated with the background check and liability insurance must be covered by the student.
Wroxton Study Abroad Experience
Special Topics in Forensic Psychology (PSYC7243) includes an optional week-long trip to FDU’s Wroxton, England campus. Students have the opportunity to study abroad, while also partaking in a number of forensic-related and leisure activities across England.
Research
Students have opportunities to participate in research, dependent on research assistant openings within faculty research labs. A select sample of faculty research is described below. Students may also have opportunities to become involved with research with other faculty in the School of Psychology and Counseling.
Paraphilic Interests and Disorders in the General Population
Project supported by the New Jersey Association for Treatment of Sexual Abusers and Fairleigh Dickinson University. Data was collected from over 2,500 U.S. citizens regarding self-reported paraphilic (deviant sexual) interests and disorders. Principle Investigator: Georgia Winters
Sexual Grooming Scale: Victim Version
Project supported by Fairleigh Dickinson University. Data was collected from over 1000 adult victims of child sexual abuse regarding their experiences of sexual grooming behaviors. Principle Investigator: Georgia Winters
Digital Intervention for Women with Substance Use Disorders and Unmet Need for Contraception involved in Criminal Justice Systems
Project supported by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). Qualitative interview data being collected to inform the adaptation, and randomized controlled trial of a digital group-based intervention for women involved in criminal justice systems with substance use disorders and unmet need for contraception. Principle Investigator: Melissa Slavin
Risk Assessments and Treatment of Forensic Psychiatric Patients
Data was collected from a sample of forensic psychiatric patients, including patients’ treatment progress and risk assessments (HCR-20). Principle Investigators: Jennifer Romei
Please see the table for key information on program completion times, attrition rates, and employment outcomes:
Master’s Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data
Graduates of the program have obtained employment in a range of health service psychology settings, including hospital/medical centers, community mental health facilities, independent practice, correctional facilities, health maintenance organizations, academic teaching, and more. Many of our graduates have decided to pursue further education after the program (e.g., PhD or PsyD programs in Clinical Psychology). Please note, that the Forensic Psychology MA program is not a licensure program; states differ in their licensure requirements at the master’s level.
Policies and Procedures
Please contact the program’s administrative assistant for a copy of the program’s student handbook. This contains information regarding student performance evaluation, termination decisions, due process, grievance procedures, and other policies and procedures. Students must also abide by the FDU’s policies and procedures.
Nondiscrimination: FDU is committed to maintaining a fair and respectful environment for living, working, and learning. To that end, and in accordance with federal and state law, the University prohibits any student, employee or third party from harassing and/or discriminating against any other member of the University community because of that person’s sex, race, creed, color, religion, handicap/disability, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, age, marital status, sexual orientation, veteran status, pregnancy status, ancestry or national origin (collectively referred to as “Protected Status”). More information on the University’s policy against discrimination can be found on the website.
Contact us
Administrative Assistants
Robert Mezzano
, Administrative Assistant (r.mezzano@fdu.edu)
Graduate Administrative Assistant (forensicpsychologyma@fdu.edu)
Faculty
Georgia Winters
, Associate Professor, Director
Melissa Slavin
, Assistant Professor
Jennifer Romei
, Clinical Assistant Professor
Sharron Spriggs
, Clinical Lecturer
Wroxton Experience
Special Topics in Forensic Psychology includes an optional week-long trip to FDU’s Wroxton, England campus. Students have the opportunity to study abroad, while also partaking in a number of forensic-related and leisure activities across England.
Learn more
School of Psychology and Counseling
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information
Information Sessions