Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-allied-health-technology-health-science-concentration/

Skip to content
Health Information Management BS
Home
/
Program
/
Health Information Management BS
Health Information professionals are members of the health care team who are responsible for management of health information that is consistent with medical, administrative, ethical and legal requirements.  Health information professionals collect, analyze and utilize data to provide information critical to the health care industry.  One type of Health Information professional – the Registered Record Administrator (RHIA) – collects data from a variety of sources, monitors the integrity of the data, and manages the analysis and use of this data.
The
Bachelor of Science (BS) in Health Information Management (HIM)
program is awarded jointly between FDU and
Rutgers University School of Health Professions
.  The program is designed as a “2+2” program with the first two years spent at FDU and the last two years spent at
Rutgers University
School of Health Professions.
Students must complete 67 pre-professional credits during their first two years at FDU before applying for acceptance to the professional component at Rutgers University School of Health Professions for their last two years. The Rutgers HIM Program is independent of FDU (i.e., requires separate application). Tuition is paid directly to Rutgers during this phase of study. Students will consult with their FDU advisor during their first year of study to review the Rutgers HIM program requirements and plan for application in fall of their second year of study.
Admission Requirements
Graduates from an accredited secondary school with a record indicating the potential to succeed in college
will be considered for admission to the
FDU BS in Health Information Management Program.
Completion of the following high school studies:
4 units of English
1 unit of Chemistry + Lab
2 units of History
1 unit of Biology + Lab
2 units of college preparatory Mathematics
At least 16 high school academic units
Secondary school GPA of 2.0 or higher
Admission to Rutgers School of Health Professions
Students will submit a separate application in the fall semester of their sophomore year (second semester of year 2 at FDU).
Admission decisions to Rutgers are made in accordance with criteria, policies and procedures established by a joint committee and cannot be guaranteed by FDU.
Students generally
need to demonstrate at least a 2.75 GPA
in major and prerequisite courses at FDU to be considered for admission to the Rutgers HIM program.
Curriculum
**Accuplacer reading/writing scores and math assessment scores will determine which reading/writing and math courses first time, first year students will take.  Those with reading/writing placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., WRIT 1000, WRIT 1001, READ 1000). Those with math placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., MATH 0298, MATH 1100).  These courses are applied toward free electives or are non-credit-bearing.
This requirement applies to all first time, first year students, even if they have been accepted into the BS in HIM Program Track.
BS in HIM
General Education
Requirements (40 credits)
Written & Oral Communication (9 credits)
WRIT1002
Composition I: Rhetoric and Inquiry
WRIT1003
Composition II: Research and Argument
Oral Communication: Select from GenEd options
Information and Technological Literacy (3 credits)
MEDT2217
Info Systems and Applications in Health Care
Ethical Reasoning (3 credits)
MEDT1130
Bioethics
Global and Cultural Understanding
(3 credits)
UNIV2001
Cross-cultural Perspectives
Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (8 credits)
BIOL2203
/
BIOL2223
Anatomy and Physiology I + Lab
Select from:
MATH1105
College Algebra;
OR
MATH1107
Precalculus;
OR
MATH1201
Calculus I;
OR
MATH1203
Calculus I
Social and Behavioral Analysis (6 credits)
Social Science: Select from GenEd options
Behavioral Science: Select from GenEd options
Inquiry in the Arts & Humanities (6 credits)
Creative & Expressive Arts: Select from GenEd options
Humanities: Select from GenEd options
University Core (2 credits)
UNIV1001
Transitioning to University Life
UNIV1002
Preparing for Professional Life
BS in HIM Major Requirements (22 credits)
BIOL2204
/
BIOL2224
Anatomy and Physiology II and Lab
ACCT2021
Accounting Principles I
STATISTICS: Select either
MATH1133
Applied Statistics
OR
PSYC2210
Psychological Statistics
MEDT4301
American Health Care
MEDT3208
Health Care Economics
MEDT4302
Health Care Law and Policy
MEDT2006
Medical Terminology
After completion of 62 credits at FDU, the program is completed at
Rutgers University School of Health Professions
(61 credits). With successful completion of the program at Rutgers University, the student will earn the BS in Health Information Management.
A minimum of 123 credits is required for graduation.
Contact Information
Drew Minardi or Jacqueline Bonaparte
snah-hs@fdu.edu
(201) 692-2388
Learn more
School of Nursing and Allied Health
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information
HIM BS 2+2
HIM2.RU.TEA
HIM3.RU.MAD