Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-humanities/

Skip to content
Humanities BA
Home
/
Program
/
Humanities BA
Emphasizing critical reading/interpretation, writing, and thinking skills, as well as interdisciplinary approaches to problem solving, the program in Humanities prepares students for professional life, civic life, and a lifetime of learning and personal growth.
The Humanities major offers a broadly-based liberal arts education and an integrated interdisciplinary experience that draws on Literature, History, Philosophy, the visual and performing arts, and culture courses in modern languages. Each discipline has its characteristic methods and interpretive moves, which are studied independently and which come together in an introductory methods course and a senior capstone seminar, which offer intensive interdisciplinary study of themes and historical periods.
This major would be magnificent preparation for a career in law (especially combined with FDU’s own prelaw minor), or any other field that prizes rigorous yet flexible thinking, well-honed research skills, clear but sophisticated writing, and being able to take multiple perspectives on an issue. It is also strongly recommended for elementary education.
Program Learning Outcomes
At the conclusion of this program, graduates will be able to:
Employ humanistic, critical methodologies, possibly including complementary quantitative or scientific methodologies, either drawing on two or more distinct disciplines, or working in an interdisciplinary way, or both.
Analyze texts (broadly defined, to encompass works, artifacts, ideas, and discourses) and creators (authors, artists) in a way that demonstrates understanding of how they function in historical, social, cultural, political, philosophical, and other relevant contexts (including reception history, movements, times, and genres), with an awareness of diversity.
Conduct research and write papers involving analysis of primary texts, supported by appropriately chosen secondary sources, appropriately documented.
Write in an appropriate scholarly genre (holistic judgment of paper’s suitability as academic discourse in the humanities).
Degree Plan
NOTE: All students are required to complete the General Education Requirements of their campus in fulfillment of their Bachelor degree requirements.
The standard Bachelor’s degree at FDU is 120 credits, including Gen Ed requirements and an optional 15-credit minor or 15 credits of free electives. 36 credits are required for the major:
Required major courses (9 credits)
HUMN 1100
Intro to Methods in the Humanities
HUMN 4001
Humanities Senior Capstone
Any 3-credit course in Philosophy (PHIL) or Religion (RELI)
Elective courses (27 credits)
Choose nine more 3-credit courses from these disciplines:
The Arts, including Art History (ARTH), Cinema Studies (CINE), Music (MUSI), and Theater Studies (THEAH). One 3-credit expressive or studio arts course in Art (ART), Creative Writing (CREW), Dance (DAN), Filmmaking (FILM) or Theater (THEA) can also count here.
History (HIST)
Humanities (HUMN)
Language (LANG), i.e. culturally-specific courses taught in English
Literature (LITS)
Philosophy (PHIL)
Religion (RELI)
HUMN courses are unlimited. Otherwise there’s a maximum of three courses from the same discipline (“the Arts” being one discipline), and only one of those can be at the 1000-level.
Internship
3 credits of an approved internship in any Humanities discipline will count towards the major electives.
QUEST/MAT Options
BA, Humanities/QUEST/Preschool – Grade 3
BA, Humanities/QUEST/Elementary Education
BA, Humanities/QUEST/Preschool – Grade 3 TSD
BA, Humanities/QUEST/Elementary Education Special Education
BA, Humanities/QUEST/English as a Second Language
BA, Humanities/QUEST/Elementary Education ESL
The QUEST version of the major is expressly designed to give elementary-school teachers the skills to teach language arts, social studies, civics, and more. Again, there are 36 required credits:
Required major courses (6 credits)
HUMN 1100
Intro to Methods in the Humanities
HUMN 4001
Humanities Senior Capstone
Literature (15 credits)
One course in American literature
One course in world literature
One course on Shakespeare
LITS 3311
Children’s Literature
LITS 2030
English Grammar, or
LITS 2031
The English Language
History (9 credits)
One course in world history
One course in American history
One course in geography
Government and Politics (3 credits)
One course in American government or politics
Elective (3 credits)
One additional course in Art (ART), Art History (ARTH), Cinema Studies (CINE), Creative Writing (CREW), Dance (DAN), Filmmaking (FILM), History (HIST), Humanities (HUMN), Literature (LITS), Music (MUSI), Philosophy (PHIL), Religion (RELI), Theater (THEA), or Theater Studies (THEAH).
Learn more
Department of Literature, Language, Writing, and Humanities
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information