Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-individualized-studies-hospitality-management-concentration-vancouver/

Skip to content
Individualized Studies BA (Hospitality and Tourism Management specialization, Vancouver)
Home
/
Program
/
Individualized Studies BA (Hospitality and Tourism Management specialization, Vancouver)
ISHSTM Introduction
A Powerful Education:
A program for you to earn the credentials you will need to begin or advance in your career in the world’s fastest-growing industry.
The Vancouver area is one of Canada’s most popular tourism destinations and as a result a location rich with career opportunities for people seeking employment in the hospitality and tourism industry. At FDU Vancouver, you can earn the educational credentials needed for a rewarding career in the hospitality industry through this specialized program offered by the university’s International School of Hospitality, Sports, and Tourism Management.
Program Highlights
Students completing the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree will be required to demonstrate proficiency in a number of subject areas and related skills. They include the following:
The use of basic intellectual and critical thinking skills, specifically to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; to use mathematical reasoning; and to comprehend the nature, techniques and limits of the humanities, natural or physical sciences and the social and behavioral sciences.
The ability to learn and apply learning to the graduate’s career and life experience, requiring the capability to define problems; to use information resources such as libraries, online research tools and computers; and to analyze, synthesize and integrate knowledge, perspectives and techniques.
The ability to be customer focused, analytical and independent.
An understanding of the historic and global context of events and achievements over time as treated in subjects such as history, the arts and the humanities.
Mastery of a considerable body of knowledge in one subject area or a group of related subjects.
Fairleigh Dickinson University’s B.A. in Individualized Studies (BAIS) program offers a variety of ways to meet university requirements for an undergraduate degree grounded in the liberal arts. In addition to completing a traditional four year program, the BAIS with Specialization in Hospitality and Tourism Management program is also ideal for the student who brings a variety of traditional course work completed over a period of years at a number of institutions and a history of work and life experiences that can be equated with credit-bearing courses.
Fairleigh Dickinson University’s
B.A. in Individualized Studies
degree requires a completion of
120 credits
. Through Pathway programs with partner colleges and transfer credit options, our program allows you to earn your bachelor’s degree faster than you ever thought possible by offering:
Small classes taught by academic and industry professionals
Field trips and International study abroad experiences for students that are interested
Generous transfer credit policies for  previously earned college credits graduates
Practical work experience opportunities
Pathway opportunities into FDU Vancouver’s Master of Hospitality Management Studies degree
Post Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility: Yes
For international students, if you submit your
study permit application on or after November 1, 2024, you must also meet the new requirements that apply to your situation to be eligible to apply for a PGWP.
If you graduate from a university bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctoral degree program:
Field of study requirement: All fields of study are eligible. There is no additional field of study requirement.
As a university, graduates from all current FDU Vancouver programs, including the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies-Hospitality and Tourism Management, are eligible to apply for PGWP.  There is no field of study requirement.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada regulations regarding PGWP are subject to change.  Please visit
the IRCC website
for latest details.
Graduation Requirements
The Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree is a baccalaureate degree program structured to meet the educational needs of learners. It includes a broad general education requirement which provides a foundation in learning, communication, and the development of critical thinking skills. In addition, students complete a required course specialization component to develop the learner’s knowledge base in the area of hospitality tourism industry management; and students are able to broaden their understanding in both hospitality and tourism industry and other areas through a selection of free elective options.
The minimum requirements for the baccalaureate degree are as follows:
completion of a minimum of 120 credits
cumulative grade point ratio of 2.00
cumulative grade point ratio of 2.00 in the upper-level courses completed at FDU
upper-level credit courses: of the courses completed at FDU 24 credits (eight courses) must be upper-level
a grade of C or better in all seven HRTM Specialization courses
at least 30 credits, normally the last 30, must be completed at FDU
residency requirement/time limit on degree completion as explained below
A transfer student may transfer credit achieved through either formal course work or through proficiency examination to the extent that the credits transferred do not circumvent existing university policy requiring a minimum of 30 credits in residence, including at least 50 percent of the credits required for upper-level course selections to be taken at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Any course work completed more than ten years before the projected date of awarding the degree (including work for which credit is transferred from another college) shall be evaluated for its currency by the appropriate department. Where it is deemed appropriate, the department will recommend courses to familiarize the student with more recent developments.
Curriculum
The Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree is a 120-credit baccalaureate degree program.
General Education Requirements
Written and Oral Communication: 9 Credits
Information and Technological Literacy: 3 Credits
Ethical Reasoning: 3 credits
Global and Cultural Understanding: 6 credits
Scientific and Quantitative Analysis: 7 credits
Social and Behavioral Scientific Analysis: 6 credits
Inquiry in the Arts and Humanities: 6 credits
First Year Seminar courses: 2 credits
International Perspectives: 3 credits
Advanced Writing: 3 credits
Major Requirements
International Perspective & Advanced Writing Requirement: 6 Credits
Hospitality and Tourism Specialized Studies Requirements: 21 Credits
Electives: 41 Credits
Hospitality/Tourism Electives: at least 22 Credits
Business Electives remainder: 0 – 21 Credits
I. General Education Requirements (58 credits)
1. Written and Oral Communication (9 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Research and write documents that evaluate information and opinion in a logical and analytical manner using appropriate style, grammar, and mechanics.
Prepare and deliver effective oral presentations using relevant technology and rhetorical style.
Written Communication (6 credits)
This requirement consists of six credits in College Writing (WRIT1002 and WRIT1003). Based on placement exam scores, some students may be required to complete developmental course(s) WRIT 1000 and/or WRIT 1001 (credits earned are placed in the free elective area) to achieve prerequisite skills before enrolling in WRIT 1002.
Oral/Professional Communication (3 credits)
Select SPCH 1155, COMM 2099, or other approved course. Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
2. Information and Technological Literacy (3 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Identify and parse information sources in a variety of physical, print, digital, and online formats.
Use this collected information to conduct research and analyze data for professional purposes.
Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
3. Ethical Reasoning (3 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Identify ethical issues in case-based scenarios.
Analyze and interpret the processes by which various claims are made and reliable conclusions may be reached.
Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
4. Global and Cultural Understanding (6 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Analyze global issues from multiple viewpoints with an understanding of why and how these issues matter and interconnect.
Recognize, appreciate, and mediate cultural differences.
Cross Cultural Understanding (3 credits)
Select UNIV 2001
Cultural Understanding (3 credits)
Select UNIV 2002
5. Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (7 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Use the scientific method of inquiry to explain the nature of the scientific enterprise specific to one natural sciences discipline.
Apply mathematical methods to analyze and interpret quantitative information in solving problems and making decisions within their professions.
Lab Science (4 credits)
Choose one four credit course with a mandatory lab component from the following disciplines Biology (BIOL), Chemistry (CHEM), Environmental Science (ENVR), Marine Biology (MBIO), or Physics (PHYS).
College Math (3 credits)
Please consult with your advisor about recommended and/or approved options for this category.
6. Social and Behavioral Scientific Analysis (6 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate ability to:
Comprehend and analyze human behavioral actions.
Comprehend and analyze social relationships within human society.
Interpret information with an awareness of how data is presented and identify potential bias.
Social Science (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from the following disciplines: Anthropology (ANTH), Communication Studies (COMM), Economics (ECON), Environmental Studies (ENVS), Geography (GEOG), Government and Politics (GOVT), Sociology (SOCI), or Sustainability (SUST).
Behavioral Science (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from the following disciplines: Criminal Justice (CRIM), Criminology (CMLGY), or Psychology (PSYC).
7. Inquiry in the Arts and Humanities (7 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate ability to:
Identify, describe, and appreciate aesthetic, linguistic, and/or literary materials produced by human thought and imagination.
Conduct critical inquiry, analysis, and interpretation of these materials.
Creative and Expressive Arts (3 credits)
Choose one course from the following disciplines: Animation (ANIM), Animation Humanities (ANIMH), Art (ART), Art History (ARTH), Graphic Design (CGD), Graphic Design Humanities (CGDH), Cinema Studies (CINE), Creative Writing (CREW), Dance (DAN), Dance Humanities (DANH), Filmmaking (FILM), Music (MUSIC), Music Humanities (MUSIH), Theater (THEA), or Theater Humanities (THEAH).
Humanities (3 credits)
Choose one course from the following disciplines: African American Studies (AFAM), English (ENGL) History (HIST), Humanities (HUMN), Literature (LITS), Philosophy (PHIL), or Religion (RELI).
First Year Seminar courses (2 credits)
UNIV 1001 Transitioning to University Life (1 credit)
UNIV 1002 Preparing for Professional Life (1 credit)
Transfer students entering the University with 30 or more credits will be exempted from taking Transitioning to University Life (UNIV 1001). Transfer students entering the University with 45 or more credits will be exempted from taking Preparing for Professional Life (UNIV 1002).
II. Major Requirements (27 credits)
International Perspective – 3 credits (1 course)
Courses for this requirement may come from a variety of disciplines. Please consult with your academic advisor to discuss appropriate and acceptable Course options for this requirement.
Advanced Writing – 3 credits (1 course)
In our interconnected world, mastery of advanced writing skills is essential for success in both professional and academic settings. This course focuses on enhancing your ability to craft clear, persuasive, and impactful written content.
This requirement must be met with a writing-intensive course at the 2000 level or above.
Specialized Studies Core Courses: 21 Credits
The Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies, in addition to providing certain skills and broad exposure to the major bodies of knowledge, also allows the opportunity to pursue a single area of study in-depth or any other combination of courses that fit into an individualized cohesive course of study, including appropriate certificate programs. The Hospitality and Tourism Management specialization requires the following 7 core courses.
HRTM 2214
Sales and Marketing Management 3 credits
HRTM 2215
Deciphering Accounting in Hospitality Business 3 credits
HRTM 3200
Food & Business, Complexities, & Innovation 3 credits
HRTM 3217
Lodging Data Analytics 3 credits
HRTM 3218
Hotel Asset Management 3 credits
HRTM 3219
Managing Talent, Acquisition, Retention & Motivation 3 credits
HRTM 4205
Build and Manage Your Hotel 3 credits
Electives: 41 Credits
Students in the BAIS Hospitality and Tourism Management Specialization must take a minimum of 41 free elective credits. At least half of these free elective credits (21) must be taken in HRTM courses. The remainder may be from courses in any other area.
Elective options may include the following courses. Not all options are available every semester and the below list is not exhaustive:
ACCT 2021
– Accounting Principles  3 credits
ACCT 2022
– Intro to Managerial Accounting  3 credits
BUSI 2450
– Business Dynamics   3 credits
ECON 2001
– Intro to Microeconomics   3 credits
MGMT 1110
– Business in a Global Society  3 credits
MGMT 2261
– Human Motivation & Behavior 3 credits
MGMT 2600
– Organizational Behaviour 3 credits
MGMT 3371
– Concepts of International Mgmt 3 credits
MKTG 3371
– Principles of International Mktg 3 credits
MKTG 4365
– Marketing Communications 3 credits
HRTM 2228
– Exploring Wines of the World 3credit
HRTM 2229
– Sensory Exploration and Evaluation Applied to Food and Beverages 3 credits
HRTM 2250
– Casino Management 3 credits
HRTM 2260
– Events Management 3 credits
HRTM 3262
– Service Business in the Next Millennium 3 credits
HRTM 4241
– Digital Platforms and Marketplaces 3 credits
ISHSTM Newsletters
International School of Hospitality, Sports, and Tourism Management Vancouver Campus Monthly Newsletters
2024
December 2024
November 2024
October 2024
September 2024
May-June 2024
April 2024
March 2024
February 2024
January 2024
2023
December 2023
November 2023
October 2023
September 2023
May- June 2023
April 2023
March 2023
February 2023
January 2023
2022
December 2022
November 2022
October 2022
September 2022
FACULTY PROFILES
BAIS HTM Faculty
BAIS HTM ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
English Proficiency
Apply Now
Tuition and Fees
Request Info
HRTM 4622 Field Course
Internship and Work opportunities