Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-individualized-studies-vancouver/

Skip to content
Individualized Studies BA (Vancouver)
Home
/
Program
/
Individualized Studies BA (Vancouver)
Program Highlights
The Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree is a baccalaureate degree program structured to meet the general educational needs of learners in the liberal arts. For students with previous post-secondary education, the program affords students the opportunity to receive up to 90 transfer credits.
It is important to note, however, some transferred credits may not count toward degree requirements.
Students may choose to pursue a single- or double-specialization, allowing them in-depth study in an area related to their career aspirations. The result is a degree program that suits the needs of students who desire a broad education experience and/or possess traditional course work experience that can be equated with credit-bearing courses.
Students completing the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree will be required to demonstrate proficiency in a number of subject areas and related skills such as the following:
The use of basic intellectual tools, specifically to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; to use mathematical reasoning; and to comprehend the nature, techniques, and limits of the humanities, natural or physical sciences and the social and behavioral sciences.
The ability to learn and apply learning to the graduate’s career and life experience, requiring the capability to define problems; to use information resources such as libraries and computers; and to analyze, synthesize and integrate knowledge, perspectives and techniques.
An understanding of the historic and global context of events and achievements over time as treated in subjects such as history, the arts and the humanities. Mastery of a considerable body of knowledge in one subject area or a group of related subjects.
The B.A. in Individualized Studies is offered by the Maxwell Becton College of Arts and Sciences, at the Vancouver Campus, British Columbia, Canada.
Post Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility: Yes
For international students, if you submit your
study permit application on or after November 1, 2024, you must also meet the new requirements that apply to your situation to be eligible to apply for a PGWP.
If you graduate from a university bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctoral degree program:
Field of study requirement: All fields of study are eligible. There is no additional field of study requirement.
As a university, graduates from all current FDU Vancouver programs, including the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies, are eligible to apply for PGWP.  There is no field of study requirement.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada regulations regarding PGWP are subject to change.  Please visit
the IRCC website
for latest details.
BAIS Graduation Requirements
The Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies degree consists of 120 credits (40 courses) in multiple disciplines. 42 of those 120 credits must be taken at the 3000 level or above. These disciplines and the course requirements are described below.
The ability to use the English language orally and in writing, the ability to understand and use basic mathematical symbols, and the mastery of basic computer skills are required of all students in the Bachelor of Arts in Individualized Studies program.
I. General Education Requirements
1. Written and Oral Communication (9 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Research and write documents that evaluate information and opinion in a logical and analytical manner using appropriate style, grammar, and mechanics.
Prepare and deliver effective oral presentations using relevant technology and rhetorical style.
Written Communication (6 credits)
This requirement consists of six credits in College Writing (WRIT1002 and WRIT1003). Based on placement exam scores, some students may be required to complete developmental course(s) WRIT 1000 and/or WRIT 1001 (credits earned are placed in the free elective area) to achieve prerequisite skills before enrolling in WRIT 1002.
Oral/Professional Communication (3 credits)
Select SPCH 1155, COMM 2099, or other approved courses. Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
2. Information and Technological Literacy (3 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Identify and parse information sources in a variety of physical, print, digital, and online formats.
Use this collected information to conduct research and analyze data for professional purposes.
Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
3. Ethical Reasoning (3 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Identify ethical issues in case-based scenarios.
Analyze and interpret the processes by which various claims are made and reliable conclusions may be reached.
Please consult with your academic advisor when selecting a course to fulfill this requirement.
4. Global and Cultural Understanding (6 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Analyze global issues from multiple viewpoints with an understanding of why and how these issues matter and interconnect.
Recognize, appreciate, and mediate cultural differences.
Cross Cultural Understanding (3 credits)
Select UNIV 2001
Global Understanding (3 credits)
Select UNIV 2002
5. Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (11 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Use the scientific method of inquiry to explain the nature of the scientific enterprise specific to one natural sciences discipline.
Apply mathematical methods to analyze and interpret quantitative information in solving problems and making decisions within their professions.
Lab Science (8 credits)
Choose one four-credit course with a mandatory lab component from the following disciplines Biology (BIOL), Chemistry (CHEM), Environmental Science (ENVR), Marine Biology (MBIO), or Physics (PHYS).
College Math (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from among the following course options: MATH 1101, MATH 1105, MATH 1107, MATH 1126, MATH 1128, MATH 1201, or MATH 1203. The course selected will depend on the home campus, Accuplacer test scores, and program of study. Those with placement scores below the standards for these courses must complete courses to improve prerequisite skills. These include MATH 1000 and/or MATH 1100 (credits placed in the free elective area).
6. Social and Behavioral Scientific Analysis (6 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate the ability to:
Comprehend and analyze human behavioral actions.
Comprehend and analyze social relationships within human society.
Interpret information with an awareness of how data is presented and identify potential bias.
Social Science (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from the following disciplines: Anthropology (ANTH), Communication Studies (COMM), Economics (ECON), Environmental Studies (ENVS), Geography (GEOG), Government and Politics (GOVT), Sociology (SOCI), or Sustainability (SUST).
Behavioral Science (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from the following disciplines: Criminal Justice (CRIM), Criminology (CMLGY), or Psychology (PSYC).
7. Inquiry in the Arts and Humanities (12 credits)
FDU graduates will demonstrate ability to:
Identify, describe, and appreciate aesthetic, linguistic, and/or literary materials produced by human thought and imagination.
Conduct critical inquiry, analysis, and interpretation of these materials.
Creative and Expressive Arts (6 credits)
Choose one course from the following disciplines: Animation (ANIM), Animation Humanities (ANIMH), Art (ART), Art History (ARTH), Graphic Design (CGD), Graphic Design Humanities (CGDH), Cinema Studies (CINE), Creative Writing (CREW), Dance (DAN), Dance Humanities (DANH), Filmmaking (FILM), Music (MUSIC), Music Humanities (MUSIH), Theater (THEA), or Theater Humanities (THEAH).
Humanities (6 credits)
Choose one course from the following disciplines: African American Studies (AFAM), English (ENGL) History (HIST), Humanities (HUMN), Literature (LITS), Philosophy (PHIL), or Religion (RELI).
First Year Seminar courses (2 credits)
UNIV 1001 Transitioning to University Life (1 credit)
UNIV 1002 Preparing for Professional Life (1 credit)
Transfer students entering the University with 30 or more credits will be exempted from taking Transitioning to University Life (UNIV 1001). Transfer students entering the University with 45 or more credits will be exempted from taking Preparing for Professional Life (UNIV 1002).
II. Major Requirements (24 credits)
International Perspective – 3 credits (1 course)
Increasingly, economic, political and cultural interdependence define our global landscape. Being able to situate your values, belief and culture in this global context is essential.
This requirement may be met through one of a variety of designated courses from anthropology, business, economics, literature, fine arts, history, music, philosophy, political science or sociology.
Advanced Writing – 3 credits (1 course)
In our interconnected world, mastery of advanced writing skills is essential for success in both professional and academic settings. This course focuses on enhancing your ability to craft clear, persuasive, and impactful written content.
This requirement must be met with a writing-intensive course at the 2000 level or above.
III. Specialized Studies: 18 Credits
In addition to providing liberal arts skills and broad exposure to the major bodies of knowledge, the B.A. individualized studies program also allows students the opportunity to pursue a
single or double area of study in depth
. A minimum of 18 credits must be completed in each discipline or recognized specialization. Certain limitations apply, including a restriction on the number of courses offered by the Silberman College of Business that can be completed and applied toward the degree.
Specialization Areas(non-exclusive)
Applied Technology –
suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Computer programming
Software development
Computer systems analyst
Technological support
Webmaster or maintenance
Business –
suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Accounting/Finance
Human resources
Entrepreneurship
Marketing
Management
Communications –
suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Business
Marketing communications
Public relations
Digital media
Training/Education
Hospitality & Tourism –
suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Catering
Events organization
Tourism
Hotel management
Restaurant management
International Relations –
suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Government
Politics
United Nations/Ambassadorship
Non-governmental organizations
International business
Humanities
– suitable for students interested in pursuing careers in:
Government
Nonprofit organizations
Teaching
Media & technical writing
Publishing & editing
IV. Free Electives (44 credits)
It is recommended that interdisciplinary electives be chosen to support the area of specialization.
BAIS Completion Requirements
BAIS Faculty
BAIS Faculty
BAIS ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
English Proficiency
Apply Now
Tuition and Fees
Request Info