Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/latino-promise/

Skip to content
Latino Promise Program®
Home
/
Program
/
Latino Promise Program®
Academic Success for Latino Students
Whether you’re planning to pursue an associate or bachelor’s degree, Fairleigh Dickinson University’s
Latino Promise Program
offers you personalized support and resources for academic success. We also connect you to FDU’s growing and dynamic Latino community.
Since the Latino Promise began in 2007, hundreds of FDU Latino graduates have gone on to pursue graduate degrees and make their mark in professions like business, education, law, medicine, science, and communications.
FDU is a member of the
Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU).
Here are four ways the Latino Promise Program can make a difference for you:
Personalized Learning:
Our classes are deliberately small for maximum learning — but you’ll have access to all of FDU’s resources as a major, nationally ranked university. We provide one-on-one advising, tutoring and counseling, career development support, Latino leadership opportunities and much more!
People and Resources:
You will study with and be supported by bilingual professors and staff members who are committed to helping you the right major, take the best courses, and receive the support to succeed academically and personally at FDU.
Access and Affordability:
FDU is ranked among the nation’s Best Colleges for Your Money by Money magazine and ranked a Best Value College in the North by U.S. News and World Report (along with distinctions in five more categories!).
We Support Your Family, Too:
Our bilingual financial aid workshops, “College Knowledge” sessions for parents and guardians, and other programs help make your path to college a smooth one.
What You Need to Know
Pathways to Your Degree
Latino Promise students may pursue a two-year, 60-credit
Associate of Arts
or
Associate of Science degree
, studying on FDU’s Metropolitan Campus in Teaneck. Graduates can go on to earn a baccalaureate degree through FDU’s
Bachelor of Arts Degree Completion Program
.
FDU’s four-year, 120-credit bachelor’s degree offers more than 60 academic majors in allied health and nursing, business, education, engineering, computer science, hotel and restaurant
management, and the liberal arts and sciences. Students enrolled in this program can live on campus in residence halls or commute to the University from home.
Latino Promise or HACER?
Latino Promise and HACER are sister programs, both designed for Latino students to receive a personalized approach to higher education. Latino Promise is for students with English fluency while HACER is for English language learners and includes free ESL courses.
Admissions Requirements
To apply to Latino Promise, students need to submit:
Completed application
Official high school and/or college transcripts (for transfer students)
Letters of recommendation and standardized test scores like SAT or ACT are optional.
There is no application fee, and we have rolling admissions. Applying early is encouraged.
Information for School Counselors
At Latino Promise, we understand and appreciate how hard
school
counselors, teachers, and school administrators work to guide students through the college application process. We would like to aid in making that process smoother. To that end, we offer high schools the following:
Presentation and On-site, which include presentations at high schools and instant decision during our on-site interviews.
School
Counselor Workshop and Luncheon to assist school counselors, teachers, and administrators a deeper understanding of the issues facing Latinos today, including social and financial obstacles that many students and their families must overcome to ensure academic success at the college level.
Experience a Day At Latino Promise is an invitation to spend the day at FDU to learn what the life of a Latino Promise student is like.
Bilingual Financial Aid Workshop for Latino students and their families to assist through the complex federal and state financial aid processes. These are done at the campus or can be done at the high school.
Latino Promise Summer Program is a two-week intensive workshop to prepare students for their first year in college.
“Latino Promise has given my students the opportunity to be successful in college by offering them small personalized classes while giving personalized attention. Not only have these students earned their associate’s degrees, but they took the skills and confidence learned with Latino Promise to earn their bachelor’s and master’s degrees and currently have successful careers in their fields.”
— Michele Martoral, School Counselor, North Bergen High
Programs for Latino Students
HACER
Puerta al Futuro
General Science
FDU’s Latino Promise and HACER programs have been named finalists for the 2022
Examples of Excelencia
by Excelencia in Education.
Contact Information
Irene Oujo, PhD, Executive Director
oujo@fdu.edu
Robison Hall, 4th Floor
201-692-2625
Israel@fdu.edu
Israel Delgado, Admissions Counselor
201-692-7346
Latino Promise Office
latinopromise@fdu.edu
Latino Promise Instagram Page
1000 River Road, Teaneck, NJ 07666
Learn more
Hispanic Center
LATINO PROMISE INFO
Admissions
APPLY NOW
Request Information
SCHEDULE YOUR VISIT