Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/aa-liberal-arts/

Skip to content
Liberal Arts AA
Home
/
Program
/
Liberal Arts AA
The Associate of Arts (AA) in Liberal Arts degree is a 60-credit, undergraduate degree available at both the Metropolitan Campus in Teaneck and Florham Campus in Madison, as well as entirely online. The AA degree is ideally suited to students, including adult learners, with little or no previous college credit. The program offers a timely and cost-effective way to earn an associate’s degree either as a terminal degree or as a stepping-stone to a bachelor’s degree.
Program Highlights
Offered fully online, as well as on-campus.
Tuition for the AA program is discounted, with additional aid available from the Office of Veterans Services to eligible students.
Rolling admissions and convenient year-round scheduling with online 8- and 10-week course options available.
Students may transfer up to 30 credits of the 60 credit AA degree. Credits from other 2- and 4-year institutions, standardized exams (e.g. CLEP, TECEP, DANTES) will be considered, along with military/professional training evaluated by American Council on Education (ACE).
Seamless transition to FDU’s bachelor of arts degree completion program
One-on-one support is available in the form of in-person and online tutoring.
Admissions Requirements
There is no fee to apply
Proof of a high school diploma (official transcript) or GED
Official transcripts from all previously attended colleges or universities (if applicable)
No SAT or ACT scores required
The AA is designed for those with few (up to 30) or no transfer credits and can eventually roll directly into the
Bachelor of Arts Degree Completion Program
.
Degree Requirements
The minimum requirements for the Associate of Arts in Liberal Arts degree are:
Completion of 60 credits of acceptable college work; up to 64 credits can be earned in the AA program prior to transferring to an upper-division program.
A cumulative grade point average of 2.00;
Completion of 30 credits (normally the last 30) taken at FDU.
Curriculum
Written and Oral Communication (6 credits)
WRIT 1002 Composition I: Rhetoric and Inquiry
WRIT 1003 Composition II: Research and Argument
Technological and Information Literacy (3 credits)
Global and Cultural Understanding (6 credits)
UNIV 2001 or approved substitution
UNIV 2002 or approved substitution
Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (6 credits)
Science (3 credits)
College Math (3 credits)
Social & Behavioral Scientific Analysis (6 credits)
Social Science (3 credits)
Behavioral Science (3 credits)
Inquiry into the Arts & Humanities (18 credits)
With at least one course in each of the following:
Creative and Expressive Arts
History
Literature
Philosophy
Free Electives (15 credits)
Contact Information
Jeffrey Teller, Director, Adult Online Education and Degree Completion
jteller@fdu.edu
201-692-7348
Contact Information
Irene Oujo, Executive Director, Hispanic Center
oujo@fdu.edu
201-692-2019
AA Programs for Latino Students
Latino Promise Program
HACER
Learn More
FDU Lifelong Learning
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information
AA degree curriculum checksheet