Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/mba-management/

Skip to content
Management (MBA)
Home
/
Program
/
Management (MBA)
Academic Information
Silberman College of Business
Department
MBA Core Curriculum
The MBA in Leadership and Managing Innovation is designed for students who wish to develop the interpersonal and management skills needed to advance to levels of leadership in their companies, as well as develop a long-term perspective and value system which will serve them their entire careers. Students in the program will improve their skills in managing people and organizational systems, build their leadership capabilities, and become well versed in team building and employee motivation. The program builds knowledge of how business strategy affects organizational interaction with the marketplace and how to structure the workplace to enhance organizational growth and productivity.
Course Offerings Emphasize
An approach to classroom instruction that fully engages the student in the learning process
Concentration on knowledge and skill sets that are practical and useable
A global perspective that emphasizes ethics and long-term sustainable business practices
The use of team-based teaching and learning
It is our goal that our Leadership and Managing Innovation majors will:
Receive solid conceptual grounding in management disciplines
Develop competencies to become highly effective individually and with others
Develop and demonstrate these competencies with hands-on learning, including work on real-world consulting projects and service to the community
Undergo rigorous assessment of their overall accomplishments
Enter a fast track to successful and rewarding careers
Our expert faculty combine scholarship, business experience and teaching excellence to help students become more aware of the challenges that face global business leaders and develop the tools, competencies, and long-range mindset needed to meet these challenges. Our management curriculum emphasizes a strategic orientation towards managing people, leading individuals and organizations through times of change, and work on actual human resources/organizational development consulting projects. We also promote the values of ethical leadership and sustainable business practices.
Career Opportunities
An MBA in Leadership and Managing Innovation can be used to pursue a wide variety of career opportunities. Those already employed in technical areas of business can use their management degrees to pursue managerial and leadership tracks in their companies. Students can also use their applied knowledge to pursue careers in management consulting or in mid-to-upper level managerial positions.
Leadership and Managing Innovation Specialization Requirements
In addition to the
core curriculum
, students wanting a specialization in leadership and managing innovation take three discipline enrichment courses:
MGMT 6605 Leadership Development
ENTR 6606 Creating and Managing Breakthrough Innovation
MGMT 6607 Leading Strategic Change and Sustainability
Learn More
Contact the
SCB Graduate Advising
offices for more information.
APPLY NOW
Interested in Silberman College of Business?
First Name*
Last Name*
Email Address*
Confirm Email Address*
Program of Interest*
Program of Interest*
MBA Programs
MBA for Executives
MS in Accounting: Track A
MS in Accounting (for non-accountants)
MS in Digital Marketing
MS in Supply Chain Management
MS in Taxation
Certificate Programs
Undecided
Have a specific question? Let us know:
FDU Wordpress Source
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB International.