Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ms-management-information-systems/

Skip to content
Management Information Systems MS
Home
/
Program
/
Management Information Systems MS
The graduate program in Management Information Systems is designed for present and future managers and developers of organizational information systems. Relying on computers and telecommunications networks, these systems are a source of operational efficiency, managerial effectiveness and corporate strategic advantage. The program combines learning how to use and develop information system technology with instruction in business, management and organizations.
Admission Requirements
Graduation from a regionally accredited college or university with a satisfactory academic record.
Submission of an official score report for the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Test taken within the last five years. The GRE may be waived if the applicant enrolls initially as a non-matriculating student and completes 9 graduate credits in computer science with a minimum cumulative grade point ratio (CGPR) of 3.00 on a 4.00 scale and no grade below C or is a Fairleigh Dickinson University computer science graduate and has an undergraduate CGPR of 3.00 or is a non-Fairleigh Dickinson University computer science graduate and has an undergraduate CGPR of 3.50.This GRE waiver policy is only applicable to applicants who graduated from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States.
The GRE requirement is waived for applicants who have completed a master’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university in the United States.
Applicants who have not completed all requirements for admission to the degree program may be permitted to enroll in classes for credit on a non-matriculated or non-degree basis.
Degree Plan
Prerequisites (12 credits)
ACCT5012
Financial Accounting: End User App
ECON5012
Economic Analysis
MKTG5012
Marketing Principles
CSCI5525
Introduction to Computer Science
CSCI5505
Introduction to Computer Programming
Required (21 credits)
CSCI6603
Computer Architecture
CSCI6623
Database Systems
CSCI6720
Management Information Systems
CSCI6758
E-Commerce
CSCI7727
Development of MIS 1: Project Management and Systems Analysis
CSCI7791
Information Systems for Competitive Advantage
MKTG6500
Marketing Management
Electives (9 credits)
Consult the FDU Graduate Bulletin and your advisor regarding electives. Courses are selected from two lists of courses under the headings of Systems and Management. Other information technology and business-oriented courses not on the list may be added at the discretion of the department. A student can opt to receive 3 credits for internship/work experience provided the student has been in the program for a minimum of 9 months.
Learn more
Gildart Haase School of Computer Sciences and Engineering
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information