Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-marketing/

Skip to content
Marketing BS
Home
/
Program
/
Marketing BS
Silberman College of Business
Department Information
Business Core Curriculum
Marketing majors are exposed to interdisciplinary courses that develop a broad range of business skills. The marketing curriculum is designed to prepare students for careers in sales, retailing, advertising, product management, direct marketing and research. This preparation is accomplished through course offerings in basic marketing concepts and supplemented by career specific courses. The learning process is enhanced with projects, case studies and internships.
Degree Requirements
All students enrolled in the Bachelor of Science Degree program must complete the
University and Business Core Curriculum
in addition to the major requirements listed below. Current students should refer to their degree audit in Self-Service for the most accurate program requirements.
Required Courses
MKTG3344 Marketing Research
MKTG4272 Consumer Behavior
MKTG4405 Advanced Marketing Management
Electives (Select four courses)
MKTG3341 Professional Sales & Sales Management
MKTG3360 Digital Marketing
MKTG3371 Principles of International Marketing
MKTG3383 Social Media Marketing
MKTG3501 Marketing for a Sustainable World
MKTG4344 Public Relations
MKTG4345 Sports and Events Marketing
MKTG4365 Marketing Communications
MKTG4941 Internship in Marketing Studies
Digital Marketing Concentration
With so many advances in technology, today’s marketing arena is more complex than ever before. Marketers are struggling to keep up with information being shared and used by their customers on a variety of platforms. Marketing success lies in being able to understand these digital and social platforms, and in being able to seamlessly integrate a range of new capabilities with some of the more traditional ones.
A bachelor’s degree in Marketing with a concentration in Digital Marketing from Silberman College of Business will prepare you for a career in this dynamic field and will equip you with the knowledge and skills to plan, design and manage a well integrated marketing strategy.
Digital Marketing Concentration Requirements
The curriculum is designed to allow you to achieve more substantive learning about the emerging area of digital marketing. Students wishing to pursue this concentration will be required to complete a total of 21 credits, which includes the following six required courses followed by an internship in the field of Digital and/or Social Media Marketing.
MKTG4272 Consumer Behavior
MKTG3344 Marketing Research
MKTG4365 Marketing Communications
MKTG4405 Advanced Marketing Management
MKTG3360 Digital Marketing
MKTG3383 Social Media Marketing
MKTG3941 Marketing Internship
in an area related to Digital and/or Social Media. Students must meet the College’s criteria for internships.
Students with specific questions about the major requirements should contact their
advisor
on their home campus.
For More Information
If you are a prospective student and would like information about applying to Fairleigh Dickinson University, please contact the
Office of Admissions
.
If you would like information regarding the majors, courses or careers paths, please contact the Department Chair
Omer Topaloglu
.
APPLY NOW
REQUEST INFO
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB.