Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-mathematics-metro/

Skip to content
Mathematics BA (Metro)
Home
/
Program
/
Mathematics BA (Metro)
The Bachelor of Arts in mathematics program prepares students to work in industry, government, business or education, as well as for graduate study in mathematics, education, business and other closely related STEM fields, particularly in the interdisciplinary areas of artificial intelligence, computer science, cybersecurity, data science and machine learning. Students may choose elective courses in mathematics and related subjects that focus on methods used to solve problems in quantitative fields of study, more theoretical elective courses that focus on strengthening their knowledge of mathematical fundamentals, or some combination of such electives. They are encouraged to complete a minor in computer science, which they can easily accomplish through the electives.  In all cases, students are exposed via a highly flexible curriculum to the kind of rigorous analysis, logic, and critical thinking that will help them to succeed in their chosen careers and/or advanced studies.  Students meet with a school-based adviser to discuss their course sequence and electives based on their goals and interests. The program is offered by the Lee Gildart and Oswald Haase School of Computer Sciences and Engineering at the Metropolitan Campus, Teaneck, New Jersey.
Students in the B.A. in mathematics program can also pursue one of the three accelerated combined 5-year bachelor’s and master’s degree programs, thereby saving time and money and expanding their career opportunities. The three accelerated programs are as follows:
BA. in Mathematics/M.A. in Teaching Combined Degree Program (QUEST)
BA. in Mathematics/M.S. in Computer Science Combined Degree Program
BA. in Mathematics/M.S. in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Combined Degree Program
GHSCSE also offers a
Bachelor of Science in mathematics
at the Metropolitan Campus. The educational objectives of the B.A. and B.S. in mathematics programs are fundamentally the same except that the B.A. in mathematics program is built on a liberal arts foundation. The non-mathematics requirements for the two programs are different.
The educational objectives of the BA in mathematics program define the skills, knowledge, and attributes that will be needed and achieved by the graduates for a successful career and professional accomplishments three to four years after graduation.
Educational Objectives
The educational objectives of the Bachelor of Arts in mathematics program define the skills, knowledge and attributes that will be needed and achieved by the graduates for a successful career and professional accomplishments three to four years after graduation. The program will produce graduates who:
Have an appropriate combination of theoretical knowledge and practical skills in mathematics to enter into and advance professionally in mathematics and related fields.
Have a well-rounded education that encourages and supports meaningful dialogue with individuals from other disciplines.
Are able to adapt to and succeed in a dynamic global environment.
Can engage effectively in oral, written and graphical communications in both interpersonal and public settings.
Are prepared to participate in life-long learning opportunities.
Are prepared to continue formal education and obtain advanced degrees in mathematics or related fields.
These objectives are consistent with the mission of Fairleigh Dickinson University to educate and prepare students as world citizens through global education. They also fulfill the needs of our constituencies.
Cooperative Education Option
Students in the B.A. in Mathematics program have the option to undertake a cooperative education experience and earn a total of 6 academic credits toward their electives. Note that these credits may not be substituted for any required course work. The co-op experience provides students a real-world grounding, linking theory and practice, academic and work experiences, and college education and lifelong learning. It better prepares students for jobs, gives them a competitive edge in the job market, helps them develop networking skills and professional contacts and allows them to experience career fields before graduation. Employers benefit from better-prepared graduates with real and relevant work experience – saving time and money by reducing the training period for new employees.
Degree Plan
The B.A. in Mathematics program requires the successful completion of 120 credits with a minimum cumulative grade point ratio of 2.00 as described below.
General Education Requirements (49 credits)
Written Communication (6 credits)
WRIT1002
Composition I: Rhetoric and Inquiry (3 credits)
WRIT1003
Composition II: Research and Argument (3 credits)
Speech/Professional Communication (3 credits)
ENGR2210
Technical Communications (3 credits)
Quantitative Analysis (4 credits)
MATH1201
Calculus I (4 credits)
Info and Tech Literacy (3 credits)
CSCI1201
Computer Programming I (3 credits)
Ethical Reasoning (3 credits)
ENGR3000
Modern Technologies: Principles, Applications and Impacts (3 credits)
Scientific Analysis (4 credits)
PHYS2203
University Physics I (3 credits)
PHYS2201
University Physics Lab I (1)
Liberal Arts Distribution
Social and Behavioral Sciences (3 credits)
Take
ENGR4210
Managerial and Engineering Economic Analysis
Behavioral Science (3 credits)
Take 3 credits from CRIM, CMLGY, or PSYC
Creative and Expressive Arts (6 credits)
Take six credits from ANIM, ANIMH, ART, ARTH, CGD, CGDH, CINE, CREW, DAN, DANH, FILM, MUSIC, MUSIH, THEA, or THEAH.
Humanities (6 credits)
Take six credits of coursework in AFAM, ENGL, HIST, HUMN, LITS, PHIL, RELI.
University Requirements (8 credits)
UNIV1001
Transitioning to University Life (1 credit)
UNIV1002
Preparing for Professional Life (1 credit)
UNIV2001
Cross Cultural Perspectives (3 credits)
UNIV2002
Global Issues (3 credits)
Major Requirements (41 credits)
Mathematics Requirements (31 Credits)
MATH2202
Calculus II (4 credits)
MATH2203
Calculus III (3 credits)
MATH2210
Differential Equations (3 credits)
MATH2255
Discrete Structures (3 credits)
MATH3220
Linear Algebra (3 credits)
MATH3225
Abstract Algebra (3 credits)
MATH3230
Analysis (3 credits)
MATH3237
Probability and Statistics I (3 credits)
MATH3341
Advanced Engineering Mathematics (3 credits)
Mathematics Elective (3 credits)
3 credits to be chosen from courses numbered 3000 or higher, with the approval of an adviser.
Computer Science Requirements (6 credits)
CSCI1202
Computer Programming II (3 credits)
CSCI2234
Data Structures & Algorithms
Additional Science Requirements (4 credits)
PHYS2204
University Physics II (3 credits)
PHYS2202
Physics Laboratory II (1 credit)
Free Electives (15 credits)
Take 15 credits of free electives.
Minor Sequence in an Area Related to Mathematics (15 credits)
A minor sequence of 15 credits is required in an area related to mathematics. An adviser will assist students in selecting the proper minor.
B.A. in Mathematics/M.A. in Teaching 4 Plus 1 Degree Program (QUEST)
GHSCSE offers a 4 Plus 1 program that allows qualified students to attain a Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics with a pathway to the Master of Arts in teaching at early childhood, primary or secondary levels with different specializations. The 4 Plus 1 program has a course load that is about 15 credits less than that of the separate degrees. This 4 Plus 1 program is offered by GHSCSE in collaboration with Peter Sammartino School of Education through their QUEST programs.
B.A. in Mathematics/M.S. in Computer Science 4 Plus 1 Degree Program
GHSCSE offers a 4 Plus 1 program that allows qualified students to attain a Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics with a pathway to the Master of Science degree in computer science with a load that is 9 credits less than that of the separate degrees. Students must have achieved a cumulative grade point ratio of at least 2.75.
B.A. in Mathematics/M.S. in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 4 Plus 1 Degree Program
GHSCSE offers a 4 Plus 1 program that allows qualified students to attain a Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics with a pathway to the Master of Science degree in cybersecurity and information assurance with a load that is 9 credits less than that of the separate degrees. Students must have achieved a cumulative grade point ratio of at least 2.75.
Contact Information
Stanley Ryan Huddy, Ph.D., Program Coordinator
srh@fdu.edu
Learn more
Gildart Haase School of Computer Sciences and Engineering
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information