Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ba-psychology/

Skip to content
Psychology BA
Home
/
Program
/
Psychology BA
The School of Psychology and Counseling offers a four-year B.A. in Psychology with optional tracks in
Consumer Psychology
Forensic Psychology
Mental Health
The school also offers five-year accelerated B.A./M.A. programs in
General/Theoretical psychology
Industrial/Organizational Psychology
Master’s in Social Work (MSW)
The QUEST (Quality in Education, Schools, and Teaching) program is open to students who want to be certified to teach at the elementary or secondary school levels. There are also three QUEST options that allow students to complete their B.A. and M.A.T. in five years with a psychology major:
BA in Psychology MAT/QUEST Elementary
BA in Psychology MAT/QUEST Elementary & Special Education
BA in Psychology MAT/QUEST P-3 Certification Program
BA in Psychology MAT/QUEST ESL Program
BA in Psychology MAT/QUEST Elementary Education- ESL
All psychology programs offer a wide range of courses at both introductory and advanced levels in areas such as developmental, social, abnormal, personality, and experimental psychology, and in special topic areas such as techniques of psychotherapy, drugs, and behavior, health psychology, sport psychology, psychology, and the law, and current issues in psychology.
Program Outcomes
The School of Psychology has five learning outcomes consistent with those identified by the American Psychological Association (APA, 2003) Task Force on Undergraduate Learning Goals and Outcomes.
Research Methods Learning Objectives: Students will understand and apply basic research methods in psychology, including research design, data analysis, and interpretation.
Writing Abilities Learning Objectives: Students will write effectively, communicate clearly in the language of the discipline of psychology, and utilize proper writing mechanics.
Critical Thinking Skills Learning Objectives: Students will respect and use critical and creative thinking, skeptical inquiry, and when possible, the scientific approach to solve problems related to behavior and mental processes.
Knowledge Base Learning Objectives: Students will demonstrate familiarity with the major concepts, theoretical perspectives, empirical findings, and historical trends in psychology.
Public Speaking and Oral Presentation Skills Learning Objectives: Students will speak effectively, communicate knowledge in the discipline of psychology, and utilize proper oral presentation mechanics.
Degree Plan
The curriculum and courses, which will serve as preparation for graduate studies required for work in various fields of professional psychology, are designed to help all students develop a scientific understanding of human behavior. They are particularly useful as an undergraduate background for those who will later enter such professions as law, social work, medicine, nursing, and teaching, or for those who will move into managerial positions in industry or government.
Psychology Major (No Track) (38 credits)
Required Major Courses (14 credits)
PSYC1201
General Psychology
PSYC2210
Statistics
PSYC2211
Research Methods
PSYC 2221
Psyc Statistics Lab
PSYC4500
Senior Seminar in Psychology (or)
PSYC4291
History & Systems
Learning/Cognition/Psychological Domain(1 course [3 credits] needed)
Courses that satisfy domain
PSYC3032
Physiological Psychology
PSYC3331
Theories of Learning
PSYC3335
Cognitive Psychology
PSYC3333
Sensation and Perception
Social/Personality Domain (1 course [3 credits] needed)
Courses that satisfy domain
PSYC3015
Theories of Personality
PSYC2234
Social Psychology
Clinical/Developmental Domain (1 course [3 credits] needed)
Courses that satisfy domain
PSYC3313
The Dark Side of Behavior at Work
PSYC2204
Child Development
PSYC3305
Adolescent Growth and Development
PSYC3306
Psychology of Aging
Applications of Psychology Domain (1 course [3 credits] needed)
Courses that satisfy domain
PSYC3322
Industrial Psychology
PSYC4398
Computer Applications
PSYC4435
SS: Psychology of Financial Decision Making
PSYC4309
Advanced Social Psychology
PSYC3308
Educational Psychology
Major Psychology Electives (4 courses [12 total credits])
Courses that satisfy the domain: any psychology course
Tracks
Mental Health Track Courses (12 credits)
Select 4 courses from the following:
PSYC3321
The Interview
PSYC3393
Child Behavior Disorders
PSYC3381
Field Placement
PSYC3305
Adolescent Growth & Development (or)
PSYC3306
Psychology of Aging
PSYC4376
Advanced Abnormal Psychology (or)
PSYC4391
Techniques of Psychotherapy
C
RIM3324
Community Resource Management
CRIM3326
Rehabilitative Strategies
CRIM3320
Interviewing & Counseling
Forensic Psychology Track Courses (12 credits)
Select 4 courses from the following:
CRIM1101
Introduction to Criminal Justice [required]
CRIM2204
Juv. Justice & Delinquency [required]
PSYC3317
Psychology & the Law [required]
PSYC3421
Psychology of Criminal Behavior
PSYC____     Field Placement, Independent Study in Psychology
Consumer Psychology Track Courses (12 credits)
Select 4 courses from the following:
MKTG2120
Principles of Marketing [required]
MKTG3344
Marketing Research
MKTG4272
Consumer Behavior
MKTG4365
Marketing Communications
MKTG4405
Adv Marketing Management
Special Information
The following offers more details about the tracks available for psychology majors.
The
mental health
track provides specialized coursework and practical experience that will make one more attractive to employers (e.g., mental health services, child care, casework) immediately after graduation. These tracks also provide a competitive edge when seeking admission to applied graduate programs (e.g., clinical & school psychology; social work).  The course work gives an in-depth analysis of psychopathology and permits a greater understanding of the various therapeutic approaches. At the same time, students receive “hands-on” experience at a practicum site of their choice to help facilitate the integration of theory and practice.
The
forensic psychology
track affords students an introduction to the dynamic fields of criminal justice and forensic psychology, integration of forensic science disciplines with criminal investigations, and training in psychological theory, research methods, and the application of psychological principles to specific areas of the legal system. At the same time, students enrolled in this track may receive “hands-on” experience at a practicum site of their choice to help facilitate the integration of theory and practice. Students will come away with an interdisciplinary background appropriate for careers in psychology, social work, law enforcement, or other criminal justice professions.
The
consumer psychology track
is ideal for students who want an applied business-oriented focus (with a marketing emphasis) to their training, but do not want to be business majors. Students in this track will take the required core psychology courses along with courses from the marketing department. This track will provide students with an understanding of human responses to product- and service-related information and experiences and will prepare them to work in private industry, non-profit, and government agencies in positions related to marketing research, advertising, designing/evaluating community-wide interventions, public health campaigns, social marketing, etc.
Learn more
School of Psychology and Counseling
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information