Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/as-radiography/

Skip to content
Radiography AS
Home
/
Program
/
Radiography AS
Radiologic (“X-ray”) Technologists are the medical personnel who perform diagnostic imaging examinations. Radiologic Technologists provide services in hospitals, clinics, and imaging centers. At the completion of the Radiologic Technologies Associate in Science Program, students will be prepared for a career as a Radiologic Technologist.
Graduates enjoy:
Employment rate in various healthcare agencies in the tri-state area: 100%.
Salary and benefits after licensure:  >$75,000/year plus benefits package including health and dental care.
Many graduates of the AS in Radiography program continue on to complete 30 more credits and earn a bachelor’s degree at FDU in the
Radiologic Technology BS: Degree Completion Program
. Graduates can also pursue additional post-graduate training to obtain a specialization certificate, such as for computed tomography (CT), mammography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), medical dosimetry, nuclear medicine, or diagnostic radiography.
The
Associate in Science (AS) in Radiography
is a 3-year Associate of Science degree program with significant flexibility to accommodate students who have a range of prior learning/transfer credits. Students report that the “1 + 2” format provides an appropriate pace to succeed academically and develop strong clinical skills so that they are confident embarking on their careers.
This program requires that students complete 39 credits at FDU (usually 3 semesters, unless applying transfer credits) AND successfully complete an accredited
Joint Review Committee in Education in Radiologic Technology
(JRCERT) hospital certificate program. The JRCERT hospital certificate program, which includes a large proportion of hands-on experience, is approximately 2 years (18-24 months) in length.
It is highly suggested that prospective students join an Allied Health & Health Studies monthly
Info-session
(
SNAH Info-Sessions
) and set up a meeting (snah-hs@fdu.edu) to discuss an individualized program pathway.
Several JRCERT hospital certificate program options are available to FDU students through our numerous articulation agreements. JRCERT programs are independent of FDU (i.e., requires separate application and acceptance is not guaranteed by FDU). Financial aid is also not available through FDU when attending the JRCERT program, however many JRCERT programs offer their own financial aid. Tuition is paid directly to the JRCERT program during this phase of study.  Students will consult with their advisor during their first year to identify an appropriate JRCERT program for completing the hospital-based component of this degree program.
Many students are able to transfer credits from prior learning, which have not yet been applied to another degree, to reduce the number of FDU credits needed for degree completion. In addition, FDU can also adjust the pace and sequencing of FDU courses to meet individual student and/or JRCERT program needs.
Admission Requirements for FDU
Graduates from an accredited secondary school with a record indicating the potential to succeed in college
will be considered for admission to the FDU AS in Radiography Program
.
Completion of the following high school studies:
4 units of English
1 unit of Chemistry + Lab
2 units of History
1 unit of Biology + Lab
2 units of college preparatory Mathematics
At least 16 high school academic units
Secondary school GPA of 2.7 or higher
Admission to JRCERT Hospital Certificate Program
Students will submit a separate application in the second or third semester of year 1 at FDU.
Admission decisions to JRCERT programs are made in accordance with criteria, policies and procedures established by the hospital program and cannot be guaranteed by FDU.
Students generally
need to maintain at least a 2.5 GPA
in major and prerequisite courses at FDU to be considered for admission to a JRCERT program.
JRCERT Options for FDU Students
Admissions requirements and application instructions are available on the websites of these respective JRCERT partners:
Hackensack Meridian Health JFK Muhlenberg Snyder Schools of Nursing and Medical Imaging
Location: 1200 Randolph Road, Plainfield NJ 07060.
Contact: Theodora Muso, Admissions Recruiter (
theodora.muso@hmhn.org
, 908-668-2471).
Zoom information sessions
every 2
nd
and 4
th
Wednesday of month, at 2 pm ET.
Clinical rotation changes every semester
affiliated clinical sites
: JFK Medical Center, Hackensack University Medical Center, Bayshore Medical Center, Barnabas Health, Summit Medical Group, Trinitas Regional Medical Center, NJ Imaging Network, and others.
Dedicated clinical preceptors across all clinical sites, for entirety of shift.
Full semester of Computed Tomography (CT) skills and training.
Dormitory facilities and financial aid available.
VALLEY HEALTH SYSTEM School of Radiography
Ridgewood and Paramus, New Jersey
Contact: Robin Schild, Program Director –
rschild@valleyhealth.com
or (201) 447-8221.
Financial aid available, per website.
CENTER FOR ALLIED HEALTH EDUCATION (CAHE) Radiography Program
Brooklyn, NY
Phone inquiries: (855) 645-3500 or (718) 645-3500.
Financial aid available, per website.
CAHE also offers a
Radiation Therapy
program (inquire for details).
ENGLEWOOD MEDICAL CENTER School of Radiography
Englewood, New Jersey.
Phone inquiries: (201) 894-3481.
Sites Associated with HUDSON COMMUNITY COLLEGE Radiography Program
Jersey City, New Jersey.
Phone inquiries: (201) 360-4782.
Financial aid available, per website.
Academic Program Plan
The curriculum consists of 69 credits, consisting of 28 credits of “
GenEd
” liberal arts and sciences courses, 11 credits in the radiology major, and 30 credit equivalents from the JRCERT Hospital Certificate Program.
**Accuplacer reading/writing scores and math assessment scores will determine which reading/writing and math courses first time, first year students will take.  Those with reading/writing placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., WRIT 1000, WRIT 1001, READ 1000). Those with math placement scores below the standards must complete courses in prerequisite skills (e.g., MATH 0298, MATH 1100).  These credits are applied toward free electives or are non-credit-bearing.
This requirement applies to all first time, first year students, even if they have been accepted into this program track.
General Education
Requirements (28 credits)
Written & Oral Communication (6 credits)
WRIT1002
Composition I: Rhetoric and Inquiry
WRIT1003
Composition II: Research and Argument
Information and Technological Literacy (3 credits)
MEDT2217
Info Systems and Applications in Health Care
Global and Cultural Understanding
(3 credits)
UNIV2001
Cross-cultural Perspectives
Scientific and Quantitative Analysis (8 credits)
BIOL2203
/
BIOL2223
Anatomy and Physiology I + Lab
MATH1105
College Algebra or
MATH1107
Precalculus
Social and Behavioral Analysis (6 credits)
Social Science:
PSYC1201
Introduction to Sociology
Behavioral Science:
SOCI1201
General Psychology
University Core (2 credits)
UNIV1001
Transitioning to University Life
UNIV1002
Preparing for Professional Life
Major Requirements (11 credits)
BIOL2204
/
BIOL2224
Anatomy and Physiology II + Lab
PHYS2101
/
PHYS2201
General Physics + Lab
MEDT2206
Medical Terminology
Hospital Internship (2nd-3rd Year) Requirements (30 credits)
MEDT4205
Clinical Laboratory Education I (0 credits)
MEDT4206
Clinical Laboratory Education II (0 credits)
MEDT4207
Clinical Laboratory Education III (0 credits)
MEDT4208
Clinical Laboratory Education IV (0 credits)
Students will be awarded 30 credits for conferral of the hospital certificate. During the hospital internship, students will be enrolled at FDU in MEDT4205/MEDT4206/MEDT4207/MEDT4208 (nominal fee) to assure matriculation maintenance and access to select FDU support services. Financial aid is not available through FDU when attending the JRCERT program, however many JRCERT programs offer their own financial aid. Tuition is paid directly to the JRCERT program during this phase of study.
During the hospital internship, students may be asked to report to a laboratory site five days a week.
Special Information
Students who want to apply for the radiography certification exam sponsored by ARRT and are able to commit a longer period of time to obtain the requirements, should also consider
Allied Health Technology BS (Radiologic Technology concentration)
.
Contact Information
Drew Minardi or Jacqueline Bonaparte
201-692-2388
snah-hs@fdu.edu
Learn more
School of Nursing and Allied Health
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information
Radiography AS
RADG2.TEA
RADG3.MAD