Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/advanced-psyd-school-psychology/

Skip to content
School Psychology PsyD Advanced
Home
/
Program
/
School Psychology PsyD Advanced
Fairleigh Dickinson University’s Advanced Doctorate of Psychology (Psy.D.) program in School Psychology employs an innovative approach to doctoral education, allowing school psychologists to remain active as full-time professionals in the field while furthering their education. Classes are kept small and frequently taught in a seminar style, with students learning from their colleagues as well as professors. Faculty and students enjoy a bidirectional learning experience as students bring their expertise of real-world school experiences into the University setting. This helps achieve the program’s goals of providing students with practical skills directly applicable to their daily work with children, youth, and families and preparing professionals who will be leaders in the design, evaluation, provision and supervision of comprehensive mental and behavioral health and psychoeducational services to children, youth and families. The practitioner-scholar model adhered to by the program is the most appropriate to achieve its goals. Inherent in the model is quality training and the delivery of evidence-based practices.
The program builds upon Master’s certification level training and prepares students for eligibility for licensure for independent practice. Graduates are able to practice and hold leadership roles in a wide variety of settings, including schools, mental health clinics, child and family agencies, pediatric hospitals, vocational and rehabilitation agencies, educational programs in business and industry, juvenile justice facilities, colleges and universities, and private practice. The dissertation project, a capstone experience in the program, is designed to be useful to students in their current positions as well as to the field at large.  It is expected that graduates will maintain a continuing pursuit of scholarly activities and a commitment to concerns of human welfare and social justice.
Professional Licensure and Certification
The Traditional and Advanced PsyD programs include coursework designed to meet the typical academic requirements for licensure in states throughout the country.  Given that the programs have not completed the APA accreditation process at this time, graduates must submit evidence of program completion to the state in which they are seeking licensure for review.  Our program graduates have successfully demonstrated that they meet licensure requirements in any states they have elected to practice, including the states of New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut.  However, given the variability in requirements — particularly in terms of internship requirements — from state to state, please check with the state professional licensing board about its requirements for licensure.  Our program faculty will be happy to work with you to understand the process and ensure that you have all the information you need to proceed with an appropriate course of study to meet your professional goals.
Please note that our specialist-level program has approval through the National Association of School Psychologists through 2025, which means that all students who successfully complete the Traditional PsyD program (which requires completion of specialist-level requirements) are eligible to become Nationally Certified School Psychologists.
Admission Requirements
Applications for admission should be submitted no later than March 1.
Applicants to the Advanced PsyD in school psychology program should hold a master’s degree and certification as a school psychologist. Candidates who are not certified school psychologists will be required to take the necessary course work and field experience to obtain certification prior to admittance into the doctoral program.
Applicants to the program must submit:
A completed online application form through the psychology common application, PsyCAS. The
Apply Now
page will direct you to the PsyCAS site.
Transcripts from all academic institutions previously attended.
Your official Praxis score report, with a score that demonstrates that you met or exceeded the NCSP cutoff score at the time of administration.
Three letters of recommendation from academic and/or professional references.
A statement of professional goals.
A representative work sample of current professional skills (e.g., psychological testing report, consultation or therapy summary, etc.).
After credentials review applicants will be selected for an in person interview.
Transfer of graduate credits to this program is handled individually by the program director.
Fieldwork
A unique benefit of the Advanced Psy.D. is that students remain in the field while completing the program, allowing them to directly and immediately apply relevant coursework. Class discussion is often focused on issues students are facing at their job sites. Additionally, the Advanced Psy.D. program enriches student field experience via completion of a year-long Practicum sequence at
FDU’s Center for Psychological Services
. Under the supervision of licensed faculty, students complete advanced testing and therapy cases in an outpatient setting during their second year of the program.
In addition to receiving supervision from licensed psychologists during their doctoral training, students in the Advanced Psy.D. program also develop their skills as supervisors themselves by working with students in FDU’s entry-level school psychology training programs. By providing supervision to future school psychologists, our doctoral students learn the fundamental features of quality supervision and emerge better prepared to supervise interns and practicum students.
Funding Opportunities
Advanced PsyD students have the option of completing their internship experience in their current district of employment, allowing them to maintain their salaried role.  Some districts also offer tuition reimbursement for coursework taken during the program, and applicants may wish to look into this option with their current employer.
Unfortunately, opportunities for graduate assistantships arise infrequently and generally require daytime availability.  We do keep students notified about opportunities for late afternoon and evening teaching at the undergraduate level, and continue to seek out more opportunities and resources for our doctoral students (including participation in grant-funded research).
Degree Plan
Year One
Fall Semester
PSYC7145
Issues and techniques in research and Evaluation I
PSYC7651
Seminar in Professional School Psychology Practice and Ethics
PSYC8720
Seminar on Child/Adolescent Assessment
Spring Semester
PSYC7146
Issues and Techniques in Research and Evaluation II
PSYC8721
Seminar in Child/Adolescent Intervention
PSYC8930
Advanced Consultation in School Psychology
Summer Semester
PSYC8128
Child and Adolescent Psychopharmacology
PSYC8132
Special Topics in School Psychology
Year Two
Fall Semester
PSYC8130
Pediatric Psychology
PSYC9125
Advanced Clinic Practicum I
PSYC8110
School Psychology: Dissertation
Spring Semester
PSYC8112
School Psychology: Dissertation Seminar
PSYC8951
Administration and Supervision
PSYC9126
Advanced Practicum II
Summer Semester
PSYC6116
History & Systems
PSYC8140
Seminar in School Change: Evaluating Effectiveness
Year Three
(with continued enrollment until completion of dissertation and internship)
Fall Semester
PSYC9115
School Psychology: Dissertation Maintenance
PSYC9150
School Psychology: Internship
Spring Semester
PSYC9115
School Psychology: Dissertation Maintenance
PSYC9150
School Psychology: Internship (Total of 1,800 hours required)
Summer Semester
PSYC9152
School Psychology: Internship Maintenance
Learn more
School of Psychology and Counseling
Programs in School Psychology
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information