Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ma-school-psychology-with-certification/

Skip to content
School Psychology MA plus Certification
Home
/
Program
/
School Psychology MA plus Certification
The NASP-approved School Psychology MA + Certification program provides the education to become a professional school psychologist at the Specialist level (60 credits). The program features opportunities to develop special competencies in areas such as assessment, identifying and treating behavior problems in children and adolescent, utilizing curriculum-based measurement tools to assess school health and student progress, and providing evidence-based therapeutic services to children and adolescents.
A multitude of settings are available for practicum and externship training, including varied public and private schools in Bergen County. The school psychology program is recognized by and registered with the New Jersey State Department of Education. The program holds full NASP approval, and graduates are able eligible to become Nationally Certified School Psychologists upon successful completion of the program.
Program outcomes
The School Psychology Programs (MA/Cert and Psy.D.) adhere to the recommended APA and NASP guidelines and objectives with specifically developed assessments corresponding to the specified objectives.
Students will obtain and apply knowledge of varied models and methods of assessment that can be used to identify strengths and needs in understanding problems and monitoring progress.
Students will obtain and apply knowledge of behavioral, mental health and collaborative consultation.
Students will obtain knowledge of human learning processes and differential learning needs together with the implementation of appropriate strategies addressing strengths and needs of students.
Students will obtain knowledge of human development process, to assess the process and to provide direct and indirect services appropriate to presenting needs.
Students will obtain knowledge of individual differences and the development of cultural competence, recognizing the importance of context on academic health and mental health of individuals.
Students will obtain knowledge of general education, special education and related services and to understand schools as complex social systems.
Students will obtain knowledge of and to implement evidence based services for prevention, crisis intervention and psychological intervention to promote mental health and physical well-being of students.
Students will attain knowledge of research, statistics and evaluation methods and a demonstration of the application of those skills.
Students will obtain knowledge and demonstrate in practice the best practices of the profession of school psychology including ethical, legal and professional standards and engaging in practices reflecting social justice and cultural competence.
Professional Licensure and Certification
Professional licensure and certification requirements may vary state to state, and are subject to change. In addition, separate from educational requirements, state licensure boards may require applicants to complete other requirements. Students should contact the appropriate licensing agency in each home state to obtain the most up-to-date information.
The School Psychology MA certification program has approval through the National Association of School Psychologists through 2025, and, accordingly, the program meets the academic requirements for licensure in all 50 states to be Nationally Certified School Psychologists.
Admission Requirements
Completed applications for admissions are due by March 15 for September admission.
Hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university.
Have taken general psychology and statistics, as well as at least three other relevant courses in the field of psychology (including courses such as experimental psychology, child development, abnormal psychology, or theories of personality).
Submit three letters of recommendation and a personal statement detailing their interest in the field.
Applications are carefully reviewed, and group interviews are conducted for those applicants who meet the school’s criteria.
This is a  full-time program. However, students are able to both work and pursue the degree, since classes are held in late afternoons and evenings.
Applications also will be considered from individuals holding a master’s degree in psychology, education or related fields who wish to obtain certification as a school psychologist (
although respecialization students do not complete our NASP-approved program of study and are thus not NCSP-eligible via the program pathway)
.
If such applicants meet the academic requirements of the school, a course of study will be determined on an individual basis to meet certification requirements. If you are interested in this opportunity, it is recommended that you have your
graduate transcript reviewed by the State Department of Education
, as they will perform a transcript review and advise you regarding which classes you need to complete to fulfill certification requirements for School Psychology.
Degree Requirements
Satisfactory completion of 60 credits in the courses approved for the school psychology program.
Students receiving two or more grades below B– in any graduate course will be placed on academic probation with the possibility of a reduced course load for the next regular semester, and students who do not demonstrate competency on assignments that prepare them for functioning as school psychologists may need to complete remediation assignments prior to enrollment in the next regular semester.  Students receiving a concurrent or subsequent third grade below B– will not be permitted to continue in the program. Maintaining a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of less than 3.2 for two consecutive years may also lead to termination from the program.
Upon completion of 36 graduate credits, students must pass a Comprehensive Examination, which examines general knowledge of psychology and a school psychology specialty subsection.
Students must complete an 1200-hour externship in a school or school-related setting under the supervision of a certified school psychologist.
Students will be dropped from the program for engaging in unethical or criminal behavior (plagiarism, cheating, violation of APA or NASP ethical guidelines, University policy, governmental law, harassment or endangering the welfare of a child).
Students encountering serious psychological adjustment problems will be advised to seek professional counseling. If the problems are not ameliorated, the student may be asked to leave the program.
Fieldwork
The MA + Certification program incorporates a range of field experiences that are designed to familiarize students with how schools function as systems and build specific skills needed for effective school psychology practice.  A unique aspect of this program is the fact that students engage in fieldwork in schools beginning in their first semester of the program.  We believe it is essential for school psychologists to understand typical child development and classroom environments before beginning to assess and intervene to address students’ learning, behavioral, and mental health challenges.  For that reason, students in the MA + Certification program complete fieldwork during their first year of training designed to provide them with experiences in general education settings.
In their second year of training, students begin to develop assessment, counseling, and consultation skills through a series of structured fieldwork experiences in local school districts.  These experiences comprise the foundational assignments for many of the second-year practicum courses, in which students receive didactic instruction and supervised practice administering testing measures, delivering therapeutic services, and consulting with teachers.  In their third year of the program, students engage in a capstone 1200-hour internship experience.  During this time, they are supported by field supervisors and through a yearlong seminar course designed to help them hone their professional competencies.
In Fall 2024, we will be able to offer
4 incoming MA/Cert students full funding (tuition and fees), in addition to an annual stipend,
for their participation in the Bogota CARES (Collaboration to Access Resources to Expand Supportive Services) program.  This project, funded by the NJ Department of Education, was designed to bring more graduate students who can provide mental health services into high needs schools. Students accepted into this program will complete their practicum and internship requirements in the Bogota Public Schools. A primary focus of these experiences will be on delivering mental health services to students in grades K-12.  There is a preference for Spanish-speaking individuals for this project although all students are welcome to apply.  For more information about Bogota CARES, please contact Dr. Raffaele Mendez at
raffaelemend@fdu.edu
.
Additional Funding Opportunities
Our training program is committed to increasing diversity in the field of school psychology so that our workforce is more representative of the communities we serve.  We welcome applications from prospective students from historically marginalized backgrounds and students whose lived experiences may uniquely support the schools in which they work.  We offer a number of fellowships and funded practicum roles that are designed to recruit and train graduate students who can effectively deliver mental health services in high needs schools.
Each year, we offer a limited number of
fellowships
(which offer 25% tuition remission; or the equivalent of 3 credits per semester) to incoming MA/Cert applicants whose lived experiences provide them with a unique perspective of the importance of school psychological services.
Prospective students who are interested in applying for these fellowships should highlight, in 1-2 paragraphs in their personal statements, how their lived experiences provide them with a unique perspective of the importance of school psychological services.  These paragraphs can address how the applicant’s background, identity, interests, or talents would meaningfully enrich their training program and future place of employment and/or how experiencing a challenge, setback, or failure has prepared this applicant to effectively serve students in high needs schools.
There are some opportunities to serve as a graduate assistant on campus (working daytime hours) and receive partial tuition reimbursement as a component of your pay.  These opportunities do not arise each year, but when they do, our School Psychology students are often highly sought after to fill the roles, which often fit into the schedules of MA/Certification students.
For example, The COMPASS Program provides specialized support for college students on the autism spectrum to facilitate their academic success. Each year, the COMPASS team hires academic coaches who will work closely with these undergraduate students to help them create effective study plans, organize their schedules, improve communication with professors, implement strategies to enhance learning, and provide other individualized executive functioning supports. Academic coaches commit to
2.5 hours/week
(2 hours of services, .5 hours of supervision), all of which can be used to accumulate practicum hours. This position comes with payment at a rate of
$15/hour
for your services, which equates to
$562/semester
. Please email
compassmetro@fdu.edu
if you are interested in learning more about this position.
In addition to some practicum and externship opportunities offered through grants or local funding, we have also had great success helping our MA/Certification students find employment as support staff in local school districts.
Prospective students are also encouraged to reach out to the FDU Career Development Center (
https://www.fdu.edu/academics/centers-institutes/career-development/
) to learn more about
Graduate Assistantships
offered throughout the university.  Once enrolled at the university, students can subscribe to Handshake (
https://fdu.joinhandshake.com/login
) to receive updates about open positions on and beyond campus.
In recent years FDU school psychology students in the Master’s + Certification program have completed supervised internships at the following school districts or sites across the tri-state area (those sites offering a stipend are noted):
Allendale, NJ
Bayonne, NJ
Bergen County (NJ) Academies
Clarkstown, NY
Collingswood, NJ (stipend)
Cresskill, NJ
Dumont, NJ
Green Brook, NJ
Leonia, NJ
Newark (NJ) Public Schools (stipend)
North Rockland, NY
Old Bridge, NJ
Ossining, NY (stipend)
Pascack Valley Regional HS (Hillsdale, NJ)
Pearl River, NY
Ridge HS (Bernards Township, NJ)
Secaucus, NJ
Somerville, NJ
Benedict’s Preparatory School (Newark, NJ)
Toms River, NJ
West Orange, NJ
Wood-Ridge, NJ
Funding Opportunities
There are some opportunities to serve as a graduate assistant on campus (working daytime hours) and receive partial tuition reimbursement as a component of your pay.  These opportunities do not arise each year, but when they do, our School Psychology students are often highly sought after to fill the roles, which often fit into the schedules of MA/Certification students.
In addition to the practicum and externship opportunities through the Supportive Schools Newark grant, we have also had great success helping our MA/Certification students find employment as support staff in local school districts.
We also support our students who apply for awards such as the
Frank J. Epifanio Minority Graduate Student Scholarship
, which is offered annually by the New Jersey Association of School Psychologists (see
www.njasp.org
).
Please feel to reach out for more details about any of these opportunities!
Degree Plan
FALL 2022 ENTRY AND BEYOND
1st Semester
PSYC6651
Ethics and Professional Practice in Schools and School Psychology
PSYC7819
Introduction to School Learning Problems
PSYC6121
Statistics
PSYC7615
Child Assessment I with practicum
First Semester Student Review
2nd Semester
PSYC6129
Research Methods & Psychometrics
PSYC7124
Developmental Psychology
PSYC7815
Child Assessment II with practicum
PSYC7820
Introduction to School Learning Problems (Part II)
Annual Student Review
3rd Semester
PSYC6111
Theories of Personality
PSYC6115
Child Psychopathology
EDUC6740
Intro to Teaching the Exceptional Child in School/Community
PSYC8815
Child Assessment III with practicum
COMPREHENSIVE EXAM
(27 to 36 CREDITS COMPLETED)
4th Semester
EDUC6931
Diversity and Equity in Schools and Society
PSYC8910
School-based Consultation with practicum
PSYC8725
Prevention and Intervention with Children and Adolescents
PSYC7215
Biological Bases of Behavior and Learning
Annual Student Review/Review of Practicum Competencies and Readiness for Externship
Praxis Examination to be taken in June or September
5th Semester
PSYC9110
School/Community Mental Health
EDUC6702
Curriculum and Instruction: Theory & Practice
PSYC8922
Externship in School Psychology (600 hours)
6th Semester
PSYC8923
Externship in School Psychology II (600 hours)
Learn more
School of Psychology and Counseling
Programs in School Psychology
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information