Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/bs-science/

Skip to content
Science BS
Home
/
Program
/
Science BS
Students seeking a baccalaureate degree, with a thorough grounding in the sciences, and desiring choice should consider the Bachelor of Science degree in science. The program is multidisciplinary, offering student maximum flexibility. The study of mathematics, for example, may be adjusted to meet students’ academic objectives. The curriculum can meet the entrance requirements for medical or dental school. Each student must officially declare a major before entering the sixth semester. The courses in a major vary from a total of 30 credits above the introductory level to not more than 42. Dual majors are permitted providing requirements are met. Candidates for all baccalaureate degrees must complete at least 120 credits of course work. Certain programs require more than 128 credits for the degree. See each major for specific requirements
Admission requirements
For matriculation in the science curriculum, successful completion of secondary school courses in elementary algebra and plane geometry and a year of science and required. Candidates for the Bachelor of Science degree must complete the following courses.
Program Outcomes
Students majoring in Science develop the following skills and abilities:
Ability to use the scientific method and understand its strengths and weaknesses.
Ability to research a science topic using traditional and computer technology.
Ability to read and evaluate professional scientific literature.
Ability to write and communicate science.
Ability to utilize mathematical reasoning and quantitative skills in science.
Possess observational and technical skills.
Possess major field knowledge.
Ability to successfully compete in science related fields.
Degree Plan
NOTE: All students are required to complete the General Education Requirements of their campus in fulfillment of their Bachelor degree requirements.
Science Core Requirements (24 credits)
BIOL1221
Biological Diversity
BIOL1222
Lab: Biological Diversity
BIOL1233
Molecules, Cells, & Genes
BIOL1234
Lab: Molecules, Cells, & Genes
CHEM1201
General Chemistry I
CHEM1203
General Chemistry Lab I
CHEM1202
General Chemistry II
CHEM1204
General Chemistry Lab II
PHYS2201
Physics Laboratory I
PHYS2202
Physics Laboratory II
PHYS2203
University Physics I
PHYS2204
University Physics II
Major requirements
Math/Computer Science Requirements (15 credits)
MATH1107
Precalculus
MATH1201
Calculus I
MATH2202
Calculus II
Math Elective
Science Concentration (16 credits)
16 credits of upper division courses in a single science.  Sciences other than Physics, Chemistry or Biological Sciences require the Chairman’s approval
Science Elective (12 credits)
An additional 12 credits of upper division courses in any Science outside the concentration.
Free Electives(24 credits)
A minimum of 24 credits of courses in any area
A minimum of 120 credits is required for graduation.
QUEST Options available
BS in Science/MAT, Secondary Ed and Special Ed Concentration
BS in Science/MAT, Elementary Ed Concentration
BS in Science/MAT, Secondary Ed Concentration
BS in Science/MAT, Elementary Ed and Special Ed Concentration
BS in Science/MAT, P-3 Certification
BS in Science/MAT, Secondary Ed and ESL
Learn more
Department of Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Physics
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information