Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/spanish-minor/

Skip to content
Spanish Minor
Home
/
Program
/
Spanish Minor
Spanish is the second-most-spoken language in the world, and the U.S. has the world’s second-largest population of Spanish speakers. A Spanish minor can be a valuable credential in many fields: business, nonprofits, education, healthcare. It represents at least a reasonable level of proficiency in the language and reasonable familiarity with Spanish literature and culture, and can represent much more than that depending on the level of courses taken. Even if you’re already proficient in Spanish, the minor is an excellent way to polish and to show off what you know.
FDU’s Spanish minor is five 3-credit courses with the prefix SPAN, starting at an appropriate level, or 15 credits of combined coursework and equivalencies (including credit-bearing exams such as AP and CLEP). If you’re at all uncertain about your level or the courses you should take, take our placement test or consult with any member of the Spanish faculty.
Required Courses
SPAN 1001
Beginning Spanish I and
SPAN 1007
Spanish Practicum I (Florham Campus)/
SPAN1101
(Metro Campus)
SPAN 1002
Beginning  Spanish  II and
SPAN 1008
Spanish Practicum II/
SPAN1102
(Metro Campus)
Beginners should take the first-year courses
SPAN 1001
(Beginning Spanish I) and
SPAN 1002
(Beginning Spanish II), offered on the Florham Campus, or
SPAN1101
(Elementary Spanish I) and
SPAN1102
(Elementary Spanish II), offered on the Metro Campus. The difference is that 1001 and 1002 have a corequisite 1-credit practicum (
SPAN 1007
and
SPAN 1008
respectively). Although normally required, these practica do not count toward the 15 credits for the minor.
Elective Courses
Take an additional 9 credits of SPAN electives. One course (3 credits) of which can be taught in English and come from an appropriate department (History, Literature, Humanities, etc.).
Additional electives are available
at Drew University under our reciprocity agreement, and at our
global partner institutions
through Study Abroad.
In special circumstances, the chair of the School of the Humanities will consider substituting relevant courses with other prefixes (LANG, LITS, HIST, HUMN, etc.).
For Information
Matthieu Boyd, Chair, Department of Literature, Languages, Writing and Humanities, Maxwell Becton College of Arts and Sciences
Associate Professor of Literature
mwboyd@fdu.edu
973-443-8719
Learn more
school of the Humanities
Admissions
Apply now
Visit FDU
Request Information