Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/ms-supply-chain-management/

Skip to content
Supply Chain Management MS
Home
/
Program
/
Supply Chain Management MS
Supply Chain Mgmt
Academic Information
Graduate Business Programs
Department
Admissions Requirements
Join your peers in an upcoming cohort
In just 21 months, a MS degree in Supply Chain Management (MS-SCM) from Silberman College of Business will equip you with the technical and managerial skills to help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of business operations. The MS-SCM is currently offered on the Metropolitan campus only.
Why Supply Chain Management?
Effective management of their supply chain and operations is the key to value creation for many organizations, especially in today’s fast-paced and highly global business environment. Employers increasingly seek candidates with skills that will enable their organizations to better manage their supply chains and operations. The Supply Chain Management (SCM) profession has therefore witnessed significant job growth coupled with steadily increasing salaries. Whether you are starting off in your career or are looking to make a career transition into SCM, an advanced degree such as an MS in SCM will train you in critical aspects of SCM and will enable you to take advantage of the growing opportunities in the field. This program is STEM-certified.
The Right Place. The Right Time.
According to the US Department of Labor’s recent report on Employment Projections (
www.bls.gov/emp/
), Supply Chain and Operations Management related jobs will grow by approximately 500,000 between 2012 and 2022.
Fortune.com reports that there will be a need for 1.4 million supply chain workers by 2018.
Career Opportunities
SCM is truly a global field that offers employment opportunities with a wide array of career options and advancement paths. We have successfully placed many of our international and domestic students into exciting SCM jobs and have helped them move forward in their career paths. Potential roles in the field include but are not limited to:
Supply Chain Analyst/Consultant/Manager
Operations Analyst/ Consultant/ Manager
Logistics/Transportation Manager
Purchasing Agent/Manager
Procurement/ Sourcing Manager
Product/ Brand Manager
Production Planner/Manager
Demand Planner/Manager
Project Manager, Production Planner/Manager
Inventory Manager, Warehouse Operations Manager
Quality Assurance Analyst/ Manager
Supply Chain/Software/IT Manager
Program Highlights
Career Opportunities:
There is an impressive track record in assisting students with internships, job placements, and promotions.
Theory to Practice
: Our faculty have strong academic credentials coupled with considerable experience in applying SCM concepts to practice.
Personal Attention
: Faculty and staff devote personal attention to addressing the needs of our students.
Strategic Location
: Perfectly located for you to be able to tap into professional networks and pursue career opportunities in and around the greater New York metropolitan area.
State of the Art Facilities
: “Smart” classrooms (pictured above) allow faculty to record and archive sessions for later review. Students also have access to finance labs using Bloomberg software for their research.
Usable Knowledge and Skills
: Using a variety of pedagogical techniques, the program will foster creative and analytical thinking.
Degree Requirements (30 credits)
Deadline to apply:
June 1. Once your application is complete with all required admission documents, it will be reviewed and a decision will be made shortly after the application deadline.
The MS-SCM program is a cohort-based, 30-credit graduate study, comprised of ten 3-credit courses.
Foundation Courses (6 credits)
DSCI6400 Data Science and Analytics
DSCI6401 Introduction to Supply Chain Management
Core Courses (12 credits)
DSCI6820
Logistics Management
DSCI6830
Pricing and Demand Management
DSCI6840
Global Sourcing, Procurement & Negotiations
DSCI6850
Global Supply Chain Finance
Enrichment Courses (9 credits)
DSCI6650
Project Management
DSCI6750
Supply Chain Technologies
DSCI6780
Sustainable and Lean Six-Sigma
Capstone Course (3 credits)
DSCI7004
Capstone Experience Learning of Supply Chain Management
This capstone experience will require students to work on a project solicited and provided from real companies. The projects are related to specific knowledge and skills gained in the MS-SCM program. The project will entail the detailed description of the project by clearly identifying the issues and the objectives the company is facing and hopes to achieve. Students will need to work with the company’s executives and faculty advisor to collect the real data, analyze them, and provide a feasible solution. The primary objective of this experience is to give students the opportunity to demonstrate that they are able to apply knowledge and skills accumulated in the MS-SCM program to a specific supply chain problem. The capstone should be completed within the last module of the program prior to graduation. Students will advised by faculty in the completion of their project.
Tuition and Fees
See complete information on
Graduate Tuition and Fees
.
Each semester there are a limited number of
Graduate Assistant Positions at Silberman College
. These positions are compensated with tuition credits and a cash stipend.
Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT)
Information about the GMAT is available from the
Graduate Management Admissions Council
. The GMAT Campus Code for the FDU MS in Supply Chain Management is J6X-HG-78. Please review the
admission requirements
to determine whether you need to take the GMAT.
LEARN MORE
If you have questions, please reach out to
SCBGradAdvising@fdu.edu
.
APPLY NOW
Interested in Silberman College of Business?
First Name*
Last Name*
Email Address*
Confirm Email Address*
Program of Interest*
Program of Interest*
MBA Programs
MBA for Executives
MS in Accounting: Track A
MS in Accounting (for non-accountants)
MS in Digital Marketing
MS in Supply Chain Management
MS in Taxation
Certificate Programs
Undecided
Have a specific question? Let us know:
FDU Wordpress Source
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB International.