Link: https://www.fdu.edu/program/sustainability-management-minor/

Skip to content
Sustainability Management Minor
Home
/
Program
/
Sustainability Management Minor
The 15-credit sustainability management minor is offered for business and non-business majors by the Silberman College of Business at the Florham Campus, Madison, New Jersey.
To have the selected minor recorded on the transcript, students must earn a cumulative grade point ratio of 2.00 or better in the minor. In general, courses that count toward the declared major do not count toward the minor. The main exception to this rule applies to students in the business administration major, who can apply a maximum of two qualifying courses toward both their major and a minor; other exceptions are noted specifically in each minor.
Due to prerequisite courses, some, not all, minors are only open to students in the Silberman College of Business. Any student interested in pursuing a minor at Silberman College should contact an adviser in the
Silberman Academic Advising Office
. Current students should refer to their degree audit in Self-Service for the most accurate program requirements.
Requirements
DSCI3502
Value Chain Management for Sustainability
MGMT3400
Managing Sustainability in the Global Context
MGMT4490
Guided Internship in Sustainability Management or
a social entrepreneurship course approved by the chair of the management and entrepreneurship department.
MKTG3501
Marketing for a Sustainable World
Select one elective:
BIOL1070
,
BIOL1071
Ecosystem and Environmental Science Lecture and Laboratory (Silberman College and Maxwell Becton College of Arts and Sciences non-science majors)
BIOL1180
Climate Change Biology (Becton College non-science majors)
BIOL2049
,
BIOL2050
Ecology Lecture and Laboratory (Becton College science majors)
CHEM1027
,
CHEM1028
Chemistry for the Global Citizen Lecture and Laboratory (Silberman College and Becton College non-science majors)
PHYS1010
,
PHYS1020
Physics of Sustainable Energy Lecture and Laboratory (Silberman College and Becton College non-science majors)
PHYS1201
,
PHYS1202
Physics for the Global Citizen Lecture and Laboratory (Silberman College and Becton College non-science majors)
Please consult an adviser to determine if one of the above electives will count toward general education science requirements.
For more information
Contact an advisor in the
Silberman Academic Advising Office
Other
minors
to consider:
Accounting (business students only)
Business Administration (for non-business students)
Data Science (Florham only)
Digital Marketing
Economics
Entrepreneurship (Florham only)
Environment of Business (for non-business students)
Finance (business students only)
Financial Planning and Wealth Management
Human Resources
Leadership
Marketing (business students only)
Sales
Silberman College of Business
Admissions
Apply Now
Request Info
Accreditation
Silberman College of Business is accredited by AACSB.