Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/advertising-brand-design/c/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin
Study B.A. Advertising & Brand Design in Berlin and learn to understand people and their needs. Learn how to strategically evaluate, conceive and design creative ideas for companies, brands and products while communicating in a targeted way.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 € per month
The B.A. in Advertising & Brand Design is your entry into the international creative industry. You will learn to understand and successfully address target groups, use text and images consciously and purposefully, and confidently design excellent communication for different media.
From market analysis, innovation development, strategic brand positioning and brand design to developing convincing advertising campaigns, you will learn all the skills required for an international career start in companies, organisations and agencies.
Berlin is a creative stage and an important location for the creative industries. It is your very special source of inspiration for sustainable and unique creation. Numerous projects are carried out with real partners under professional conditions, so you have the chance to get plenty of practical experience during your studies.
The excellent facilities at SRH University allow you to perfect your academic and design profile. You can test and implement your big ideas for brands and advertising campaigns in workshops, film and photo studios, and numerous other workspaces.
As a creative communication expert, you are just as much in demand in companies and organisations as in media and advertising agencies.
Career profiles:
Strategic Planner
Account Manager
Concept Designer
Copywriter
Media Designer
Art Director
Content Creator
In addition, the internationally recognised Bachelor of Arts degree gives you access to numerous postgraduate and Master's programmes.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In the
B.A. Advertising & Brand Design
programme at SRH University, you can expect exciting modules that will optimally prepare you for a career in the international creative industry. In the first semester, you will start with the basics of design and learn essential techniques in areas such as typography, photography and interactive design. You will delve deep into consumer psychology and communication science and learn how to reach target groups through creative and effective communication.
You will expand your knowledge of advertising strategies, media planning and brand development during your studies. Practical projects on topics such as advertising campaigns and brand strategies offer you realistic insights into the world of work. You will also deepen your skills in creativity techniques, copywriting and media production.
The 5th semester allows you to spend a semester abroad or do an internship to gain valuable international experience. Your final year of study prepares you intensively for your career entry. You will develop your portfolio, write your Bachelor's thesis and receive professional coaching for your career planning.
We will be happy to send you further information material, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
There is interest in intensive entertainment, but consumption of the media-format book is declining—the new generation is streaming.
The task is to develop a brand design for a media brand that communicates visually with the intended target group primarily through the design of book covers. Students design logos and layouts; the results are published in the brand design manual.
The English-language Advertising (B.A.) study programme uniquely combines advertising competence with communication strategy and design. Its contemporary orientation addresses the current demands on advertising strategies and design and enables students to start their careers in an international context.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 209
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for Scientific Writing & Media
e-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer
e-mail:
[email protected]
More info
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Advertising & Brand Design
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Portfolio with approx. 10 creative works
*
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
*Your portfolio should show us that you enjoy designing and have an extraordinary creative personality. You can present your ideas, concepts, design work, previous projects, etc. - there are no limits to your creativity!
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: