Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/applied-computer-science/i/

Master
Master of Science | Multiple locations
How can computer science find applications in business and research? Enhance your knowledge with our Master's in Applied Computer Science and embark on a career with the employer of your choice or pursue a doctorate.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1sr april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semester/2 years
Location:
Heidelberg,
									
										Stuttgart,
									
										Fuerth
Costs:
from €750 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
You need sound and up-to-date knowledge beyond your first academic degree to apply computer science in business and research. In our Master's programme in Applied Computer Science, we provide you with this knowledge and the relevant skills you need for your professional career - at a high level and with a practical orientation. If you aim for a computer science doctorate, this degree is a prerequisite.
In the first semester, you choose one of the three specialisations, 'Business Computing', 'Mobile Computing' or 'Usability Engineering and UX Design'. You will take elective modules from your chosen specialisation in the first three semesters.
With a degree in Applied Computer Science, you have the best chances of finding an exciting and highly-paid position in the software and IT industry. Graduates from previous years have worked in large companies such as ABB, Airbus or Accenture, at Adidas, Audi, Bosch, BMW, BASF, Deloitte, Deutsche Börse, DKFZ, Triumph, PWC, SAP and Verivox, as well as in successful small and medium-sized companies. Our programme also qualifies you for public sector positions, research work and a doctorate.
Possible areas of work:
Software engineer and architect
Full-stack software developer
System analyst
System designer
IT project manager
IT consultant
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
The Master's programme in Applied Computer Science provides comprehensive knowledge in software development, data analysis, and modern information systems. Students learn programming languages, algorithms, and data structures to develop innovative solutions for complex problems.
Hands-on modules such as software engineering and databases and such issues as artificial intelligence and cybersecurity promote the development of future-oriented skills. Business analytics and data science are also covered to make data-based decisions.
Agile methods train students in flexible project work and team communication. In your Master's thesis, you will apply the acquired knowledge in a project.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
What I admire most about SRH University and its staff and lecturers is the freedom and support to pursue your own goals and dreams.
Vaibhav Sakharkar, Alumnus Applied Computer Science (M.Sc.)
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Professor
Professor
Chief Innovation Officer
Lecturer
Lecturer
Lecturer for Special Tasks
Research Associate
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €750 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. So, you'll have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Applied Data Science and Analytics,
you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science, Applied Computer Science, Information Management, IT, Software Development, Virtual Realities or similar area of studies
Good knowledge of object-oriented programming languages (Java/C++/Python, etc.) and databases (MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, etc.)
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: