Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/applied-mechatronic-systems/e/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Engineering | Berlin, Heidelberg
Our Mechatronics Bachelor's degree combines mechanical engineering, electrical engineering and computer science. Strengthen your technical expertise, learn design solutions for electromechanical systems and hone your soft skills.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Keyfacts
Content of Your Studies
Career Opportunities
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Heidelberg,
									
										Stuttgart
Costs:
from €690 per month
SMSCP Certification
You'll obtain the Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP) certification at level 1-2
The Bachelor's programme in Mechatronics at SRH University gives you a clear understanding of the relevant disciplines of mechatronics, including mechanical engineering, electrical engineering and computer science. Apart from brushing up necessary skills in mathematics, physics, and statistics, you get to deepen your programming knowledge and practice your intercultural and communication skills.
You will be able to design complete solutions for electromechanical systems and know how to implement the associated control systems, e.g. by using microcontrollers. Additionally, you will have the opportunity to dive into exciting emerging fields such as automotive mechatronics, robotics, machine learning and smart manufacturing.
As a Bachelor of Engineering student, you will learn agile methods, do extensive lab work and work on hands-on projects with companies. In addition, you'll receive the “
Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP)
” certification at level 1-2.
As a Bachelor of Engineering graduate, you are qualified for challenging jobs in energy and environmental, process, mechanical and plant engineering, and work for the automotive industry and its suppliers, as well as the medical devices industry.
Choose from the following career paths:
Industrial development (planning, calculation, design and testing of technical plants, products and systems)
Production (planning, manufacturing, operation and monitoring of technical and process facilities and systems, testing of products and processes, quality assurance)
Marketing and sales of technical systems, plants and products
Management activities in the manufacturing industry, private sector companies and public authorities
previous slide
next slide
07.12.2024
Would you like to experience our Master's program Dance and Movement Therapy live? Prof. Dr. Sabine C. Koch and Claudia Sauerborn, MA will give you insights into the theory and practice of this exciting field of work.
Online
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
Your modules
The English-language Bachelor's programme in Mechatronics offers a comprehensive curriculum combining theory and hands-on projects. You start with basics such as
maths
,
physics
,
engineering drawing & design
and
programming
. In the following semesters, you will deepen your knowledge of
electronics
,
microcontrollers
and
measurement technology
while practical laboratory units and team projects further develop your skills. Modern technologies such as
Artificial Intelligence
,
Internet of Things
and
Smart Manufacturing
are also a focus of the curriculum. Additionally, you will receive the prestigious
Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate (SMSCP) at levels 1-2
.
This study programme perfectly prepares you for the real world through
internships
,
research projects
and a
company project
. The modules are designed to help you develop a deep understanding of crucial topics ranging from
robotics
,
embedded systems
and
drive technologies
to
cloud technologies
.
We're happy to send you further information, including the curriculum and career opportunities after graduation!
Order your information material
The Siemens SMSCP certificate is part of the curriculum. Thanks to the examination you will find it easy to work your way into new systems and to apply your new expertise. The certification is not only well-known in technical industries, it will also help you kick-start your career.
More information about SMSCP
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 222
Contact me
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA (incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine): €690 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA:
€4,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Applied Mechatronic Systems
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now!
Share: