Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/applied-data-science-and-analytics/i/

Master
Master of Science | Heidelberg, Hamburg
As a data scientist, you are in a key position when it comes to dealing with large and unstructured data sets and extracting knowledge from them. Find out more about our Applied Data Science & Analytics Master's programme here.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semester/2 years
Location:
Hamburg,
									
										Heidelberg,
									
										München
Costs:
from €750 per month
In the Master's programme in Applied Data Science and Analytics, you will acquire in-depth knowledge and an understanding of the entire data science process. You will learn how to apply mathematical,
statistical, analytical and machine learning/deep learning techniques to gain insights from large and often unstructured data sets.
The data visualisation and storytelling part of this programme will enable you to use the data to provide stakeholders with valuable insights for decision-making. You will also learn in a practice-orientated way: You will work with real clients in project-based modules. In addition, you will complete a three-month mandatory internship in a company of your choice and can also write your Master's thesis in collaboration with a company. This way, you will gain almost a year of professional experience during your studies.
With a Master of Science in Applied Data Science and Analytics and a qualification at all levels of data science, you will have the best opportunities in all sectors, including the manufacturing industry, banks, insurance companies, the IT sector, consulting, public or industrial research institutes, the healthcare sector and at colleges and universities. Graduates from previous years now work at ABB, Heidelberg Cement, Airbus, Accenture, Adidas, Audi, Bosch, BMW, BASF, Deloitte, Deutsche Börse, DKFZ, PWC, SAP and Verivox, as well as successful medium-sized companies. Our programme also qualifies you for a public sector position, research work, and doctoral programmes.
Possible fields of work:
Data scientist
Data analyst
Data engineer
Data architect
Business intelligence developer
Machine learning engineer
Deep learning expert
Your path to the future
Start your applicaion now
The Master's programme in
Applied Data Science & Analytics
provides practical data analysis and management knowledge. The first semesters focus on case studies, statistics, machine learning, data visualisation basics, and big data programming with Python. You will learn about databases, data collection and cleansing, followed by advanced topics such as text mining, big data architecture and interactive dashboards. You will also deal with data protection, ethics and international law. The final part is Advanced Data Visualisation, and you can choose between a case study or an internship.
This study programme prepares you for leadership roles in data science.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
SRH University attaches great importance to practical learning and a connection to the industry. I was impressed by the fact that the university emphasises practical projects, internships and real-life applications. This approach will give me valuable experience and prepare me for the challenges of the advertising industry.
HUY NGUYGEN, STUDENT APPLIED DATA SCIENCE AND ANALYTICS (M.SC.)
Using the latest tools such as Tableau, R Studio, Apache Spark and Python, we were able to analyse, manage and visualise data to gain meaningful business insights. Coming from an education and business management background, choosing this programme was the best decision to start my career in tech.
SUPRIYA NAYAK, STUDENT APPLIED DATA SCIENCE AND ANALYTICS (M.SC.)
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 40 334656 14
Contact me
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Lecturer
previous slide
next slide
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees Heidelberg
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,450 / semester
Tuition fees Hamburg
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €750 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €5,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. So, you'll have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Applied Data Science and Analytics,
you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science, Data Science, Information Technology, Artificial Intelligence, Data Analysis, Mathematics, Business Informatics
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: