Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/architecture-design-for-the-built-environment/a/

Master
Master of Arts | Heidelberg & Hamburg
From 2025 also at the Campus Hamburg!*
Building in the context of history, identity and social change presents architects with new challenges. Immerse yourself in Europe's cultural heritage with our Architecture Master's programme and shape the future of architecture.
Request information
Apply now
From 2025 also at the Campus Hamburg!*
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
90
Info:
accredited
Duration:
3 semester/1.5 years
Location:
Heidelberg,
									
										Hamburg
Costs:
from €750 € per month
The first semester comprises the modules Architectural Theory, Building Construction I + II and Urban Analysis and Representation. Together we focus on a reflective approach to architecture and the city: we develop architectural ideas, concepts and theories and realise them in architectural design. In the second semester, we deal with an existing building in the steps of analysis, design and building construction. We work at the university and in the building itself. Various compulsory electives round off the semester before you start writing your thesis.
With a Master's degree in Architecture - Design for the Built Environment, you will be equipped for an increasingly globalised and international world. You will become adept at dealing with people from other cultures and will be able to utilise this potential together. You will be able to contribute directly to national and international architecture firms by dealing with important social challenges such as how to deal with existing architecture and urban structures or the people- and climate-friendly city of the future.
Possible professional fields include
Architect
Urban planner
Landscape architect
Sustainability consultant
Project manager in the construction industry
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
The Master's programme Architecture—Design for the Built Environment at SRH University offers the opportunity to develop creative and innovative solutions to the built environment's challenges. This interdisciplinary programme combines architectural design with a deep understanding of sustainable and urban development.
You will acquire comprehensive knowledge in design, planning and realisation through projects and workshops. The modules will develop your critical thinking and creative problem-solving skills as you explore current trends and technologies. You can further deepen your interests and set specific specialisations in the compulsory elective area.
Prepare yourself for a versatile career in which you actively contribute to the design of liveable spaces and influence the future of architecture!
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Study advisor
Sprechzeiten:
Mon - Fri 07:30 - 11:30, Mon.+Mon. 13:00-16:00 Fri. 13:00-15:00
[email protected]
+49 6221-6799-306
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-337
contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Research Associate
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €750 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €5,100 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. So, you'll have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Architecture - Design for the Built Environment,
you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree (final grade of at least 2.5 | German system) in
architecture with 210 ECTS
(= 3.5-year degree)
Alternatively: Bachelor's degree (final grade of at least 2.5 | German system) in
architecture with 180 ECTS
(= 3-year degree) + preparatory course (pre-course practice in an architecture firm and a design project = 30 ECTS)
Secondary School Certificate
Letter of motivation
Architecture portfolio with at least 30 pages, featuring previous work from your studies or professional experience.
Successful interview
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: