Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/audio-design/m/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin, Munich (in accreditation)
Also available at the Munich location from 2025!*
Sound engineering, capturing, mixing - is that exactly your world? Our degree in Audio Design teaches you how to acoustically shape the world with sound and speech - from blockbuster soundtracks to electric car sound design.
Request information
Apply now
Also available at the Munich location from 2025!*
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										München
Costs:
from €790 per month
Designed sound surrounds us in almost all areas of our lives. In our B.A. Audio Design programme you will explore the physical properties of sound and learn how to technically design and manipulate it. You will produce soundtracks for various media such as film, animation and computer games, you will investigate the powerful effects of sound in different environments and become familiar with the entire acoustic communication chain - from the sound source to the recipient.
Audio designers compose music of various genres, create digital sound designs and acoustic special effects, realise speech productions and manage sound recordings with bands and ensembles. They write songs, orchestrate their own arrangements and develop digital musical instruments and apps. Audio designers work either freelance or are employed in a variety of industries.
The B.A. Audio Design offers excellent career opportunities in industries such as:
Phono industry, labels, studios
Advertising, media and design agencies
Audio software companies
Production companies, TV and radio stations, radio play publishers
Game producers
They work, for example, as:
Sound designers
Music producers
Audio engineers
Film musicians
Composers
Software developers
Product managers
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In the Bachelor's programme in Audio Design, you will learn how to create professional sound recordings in Studio & Acoustics and how to express your creativity in music and sound design. You can apply your knowledge directly in practical projects.
You will also acquire knowledge of digital signal processing, electronic music composition and editing & mixing. You will also deepen your understanding of digital scoring, music informatics and media law.
An
internship or study abroad
session as well as innovative areas such as
game audio
and
creative strategies
will optimally prepare you for your career in audio design.
We will be happy to send you further information material, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Our music programmes for your ears
In our
playlist
we present current and former students from the
B.A. Audio Design
,
B.Mus. Popular Music
and
B.A Music Production
. All songs were either (co-)composed, interpreted, arranged and/or produced by our students!
Off to Spotify
Soundtrap Cooperation Project
Students of the SRH University Audio Design programme and students of the English University for the Creative Arts have created concept albums together using the digital audio workstation Soundtrap. The aim of the project is to create a creative network beyond borders and to strengthen the students' intercultural skills.
To the Soundtrap project and the albums
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 212
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for mastering
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for active listening, electric bass, ensembles, music notation software (MuseScore & Finale)
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for composition, arrangement and orchestration
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for songwriting and English in music media
Consultation hours: Appointments on request
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,740 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Audio Design
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Artistic works
: three one-minute MP3s as independent artistic works*
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
* After successful pre-selection, we will invite you to the
practical entrance exam
. During the exam, we want to assess your programme-specific expertise, creativity, creative and expressive drive, and motivation.
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
15.02.2025
Get to know our study programmes, professors and the new SRH Campus Munich
Anmeldung/Registration
Share: