Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration-automotive-technology-and-management/b/

Bachelor
International Business Administration
Automotive Technology and Management
Bachelor of Arts | Leipzig
Gain in-demand technology and management skills for the automotive industry during your studies. Become a sought-after specialist in technology, logistics and sales.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
Winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 & 210
Info:
without NC,
										
											in accreditation
Duration:
7 semesters
Location:
Leipzig
Costs:
€620 / month
									
										-
Show costs split
The B.A. Automotive Technology and Management programme combines thorough technical expertise with management skills tailored specifically to the requirements of the automotive industry.
In the technological domain, students are exposed to the significance of collaboration between automobile manufacturers and suppliers for cost control, quality assurance, and delivery reliability. Additionally, they gain insights into cutting-edge vehicle technologies.
The management component of the programme addresses important megatrends such as energy, environment, and safety, analysing how these trends influence manufacturers' distribution structures. This programme optimally prepares students for the challenges of the automotive industry, empowering them to actively contribute to shaping the future of mobility.
We prepare you for your career in the dynamic automotive industry. After completing your studies, you might find opportunities with world-famous vehicle manufacturers such as BMW, Mercedes, VW and Audi, as well as with numerous suppliers and service providers in Germany or internationally. Your in-depth training in business and management enables you to overcome complex challenges independently and efficiently and enables you to actively participate in shaping the future of mobility. When you study in Leipzig, you are in the heart of one of the most important automotive locations in Germany. In Leipzig alone, BMW, Porsche and their suppliers employ over 20,000 people.
After graduating with a degree in Automotive Technology and Management, a variety of career paths open up, including:
Supply chain management
Project management
Product development
Production development
Sales strategies
Sales marketing
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Get to know our degree programmes, professors and the new campus!
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine:
International Experience Track (7 semesters) €620 per month
Fast Track (6 semesters) €650 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship:
International Experience Track (7 semesters) €3900 per semester
Fast Track (6 semesters) €4500 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Your financing and funding options
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Bachelor's programme in
Automotive Technology and Management
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
Professor
Marketing & Sales
[email protected]
+49 341 989707 10
contact me
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: