Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/computer-science-big-data-artificial-intelligence/i/

Master
Computer Science
Big Data and Artificial Intelligence
Master of Science | Berlin & Leipzig
With our Master's in Big Data & AI, you'll become an expert in data science! You will get to know the latest big data technologies and how to introduce AI tools in companies. You will also get to strengthen your analytical, business and soft skills.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210 (General Track); 180 (Fast Track)
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years (General Track); 3 semesters/1.5 years (Fast Track)
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Leipzig
Costs:
from €750 per month
This Master's programme provides a computer science education that includes classic modules such as software development and programming yet teaches specialised knowledge regarding Big Data and Artificial Intelligence.
You will get to know the latest big data technologies and learn how to implement AI and machine learning tools in the business environment. In addition to technological expertise you get to deepen your analytical, business and soft skills in various projects and internships.
During your studies you get to develop your intercultural, managerial and communication skills with practical projects. Due to your interdisciplinary IT and business education you will become a sought-after expert in the current and future job market.
Choose from the following career paths:
Positions in business analytics
Management positions in marketing and strategic management
IT Manager
IT Consultant
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the first two semesters of the M.Sc. Computer Science - Big Data and Artificial Intelligence programme, you will acquire in-depth knowledge in areas such as software development, machine learning, data analysis and artificial intelligence. You will learn how to analyse complex data, apply machine learning algorithms and develop cloud solutions. The third semester offers you the opportunity to apply your knowledge in an internship or research project. In the fourth semester, you will dedicate yourself to scientific work, carry out a Master's project and complete your studies with the Master's thesis and its defence.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees Berlin
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
Tuition fees Leipzig
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €750 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €5,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Computer Science - Big Data and Artificial Intelligence
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science
,
Information Systems or a similar area of studies
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: