Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/data-science-business-analytics/i/

Master
Data Science
Business Analytics
Master of Science | Fürth
You want to improve the performance of your company and make it even more successful in the future? Then specialize as a business analyst and optimise your career opportunities! Use the power of data to conquer the business world.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Fuerth
Costs:
from €680 per month
In the Master's programme in Data Science – Business Analytics, you will delve deeply into descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive data analysis techniques, enabling you to assess and evaluate the performance of businesses across all sizes and sectors. You will gain advanced data mining, artificial intelligence, and machine learning skills, equipping you to forecast future market developments and navigate your company confidently and successfully.
You will be able to address questions regarding the causes of these developments and derive well-founded recommendations for upcoming decisions. The Master's in Data Science – Business Analytics empowers you to simulate the outcomes of various decisions and optimise business processes. Thus, the Master's will make you an expert in a truly "data-driven" business environment.
As a graduate of the Master's programme in Data Science – Business Analytics, you will have numerous career options in Germany and abroad.
The innovative focus of the programme opens up opportunities in middle and upper management (department, team), research and development, concept and production, as well as in business development, marketing, and strategy and management consulting.
Possible activities are:
Business Intelligence (BI) Analyst
Data Scientist
Marketing Analyst
Consultant in the field of business analytics
The Master's in Data Science – Business Analytics also qualifies you for positions in the public sector, research roles, and doctoral studies.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Master's programme in Data Science and Business Analytics at SRH University's Fürth campus, you will learn how to analyse large amounts of data and derive valuable insights for strategic business decisions. You will work intensively with modern data analysis methods, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI). The focus is on practical projects to apply your skills in real-life business scenarios. Ethical issues surrounding the use of data and dealing with data protection also play a role.
The highlight modules include:
Big Data & Cloud Technologies
: In this module, you will learn how to work efficiently with large amounts of data and cloud infrastructures.
Advanced Analytics & Machine Learning
: To make data-driven predictions, you will immerse yourself in modern analysis methods and machine learning.
Business Intelligence & Strategy
: This module strategically uses data for company decision-making.
Data Governance & Ethics
: You will deal with the responsibility and legal framework conditions surrounding the use of data.
This degree programme optimally prepares you for roles such as data scientist, business analyst or data strategist.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €680 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €4,500 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €500 (EU/EEA) or €900 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Data Science - Business Analytics
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science, Business Informatics, Economics or a similar area of studies
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Introduction Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: