Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/business-engineering/e/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Engineering | Heidelberg
Engineers and economists sometimes speak different languages. With a Bachelor's degree in Business Engineering, we prepare you optimally for this essential interface function between business and technology.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210 ECTS
Info:
in accreditation
Duration:
7 semester/3.5 years
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
from €690 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
1st English intake
Starting in 2025 (in accreditation)
Imagine you want to develop a product and sell it profitably. In the Bachelor's programme in Business Engineering, you will learn to explain how scientific forces can attack a product (technical mechanics), why it may then fail (materials engineering), what manufacturing techniques are available to restore the product (production engineering), and what all this has to do with electrical engineering - this is how we lay the engineering foundations. Then, we move on to economics.
The focus is on innovation management, patent research and the basics of business administration. You will also acquire skills in automation technology, technical drawing, programming, quality management and production.
You will apply all of this directly in your Engineering Design Project, from the business plan for your virtual start-up to production planning. After your internship, you will tackle business development before you decide on a compulsory elective subject to deepen your knowledge.
You are both a specialist and a generalist, and you are in demand in projects and companies worldwide. As an interface between technology and business, you speak both languages and mediate between different ways of thinking. You effortlessly combine technical and scientific content with economic and social science content.
You can overcome barriers between technology and management. You plan, organise, and design work and business processes of all kinds, which gives you a professional foothold wherever technical and commercial challenges meet.
Industries/fields of work
Mechanical and plant engineering
Automotive industry
Steel production and processing
Chemical industry
Medical and microsystems technology
Energy industry
Aerospace industry
Traffic and transport technology
Engineering and design offices
Consumer goods industry
Possible positions:
Product management
Planning and project management
Technical sales and marketing
Project management
Process management
Product cost management
Business and investment case management
Research and development
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In your Bachelor's programme in Business Engineering, we first lay the foundations in mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering to prepare you for the other modules. We then focus on product design in various aspects, such as construction, automation technology, and project management.
In the 4th semester, you will apply the knowledge you have acquired in an engineering design project and an internship, allowing you to establish contacts with the industry. We also include corporate development and strategy in your degree programme. Here, you will deal with globalisation and sustainability or corporate management. Depending on your interests, you can further deepen your knowledge in four elective subjects.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Request information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Lecturer
Research Associate
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA (incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine): €690 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA:
€4,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the already paid-for study period. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations, so you have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Business Engineering
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
You have more questions?
Share: