Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration-business-psychology/b/

Bachelor
International Business Administration
Business Psychology
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin, Hamburg
Your ideal combination: Business & Psychology. You learn management foundations for global companies and understand what motivates and influences people. You ensure skillful staff selection and facilitate satisfaction at all organisational levels.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 or 210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
6 or 7 semesters/3 or 3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Hamburg
Costs:
from €620 per month
You dream of a job in
international management
and are interested in human behaviour? Then
business psychology
is the perfect choice for you!
What is Business Psychology? Why should you study it?
Business psychology, also known as industrial-organisational psychology, applies human psychology to practical business needs.
Your studies will equip you with specialist
business administration and psychology expertise
. The integrated projects will strengthen your social and intercultural skills.
You will gain
in-depth knowledge
of marketing, accounting and sales - always in a
global context
and with an integrated, comprehensive reference to psychology.
If you want to
study business psychology
, you can look forward to challenging modules that prepare you for a
varied professional life
.
Have you ever preferred tidying up to cramming? Soon only your peers will feel that way – your knowledge of the
psychology of learning and motivation
has made you more efficient, and now you can share your expertise with growing teams.
Through the
Emotions in the Workplace
and
Advertising and Psychologically-Based Personnel
Selection modules, companies can rely on you to hire the best personnel and treat them appropriately.
Your acquired
market and advertising psychology skills
will certainly come in handy, especially in
personnel development
.
So, you
shape the working environment
of various organizations based on your psychological knowledge. You will thus become a
valuable asset
, as your business studies will seamlessly blend in with your skills.
You'll get a
premium education
in international business studies, including applied business mathematics, business English, an
extensive understanding
of corporate management, and even an immersion in private commercial law.
Got a chronic travel bug? Experience the
global orientation
of the Business Psychology program during a
semester or internship abroad
. Our International Office supports you in planning and connects you with our
worldwide partner companies
.
You'd rather get started as soon as possible? Then skip the semester or internship abroad.
You choose between:
the
7-semester/3-year version (International Experience Track)
the
6-semester/3.5-year version (Fast Track)
A degree in Business Psychology offers a vast number of career opportunities. From market research to contract negotiations to human resources management – every perceivable niche of business management benefits from an organizational psychology perspective.
Business psychologists are at home in both management and consulting. Thanks to your business administration and psychology knowledge, you are in demand on the job market and are prepared for a wide range of positions.
Most of our graduates work successfully in human resources, but your career opportunities are very diverse. Your sound knowledge allows you to choose your career goals and shape your future.
Our Career Service will help you find your dream job and get off to a confident start.
With your degree, the following and other career paths are open to you:
Management consultant
Marketing and advertising positions
Market and behavioural researcher
Coach
Expert in the areas of personnel selection, development, or marketing
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the International Business Administration programme with a specialisation in Business Psychology, you will
combine business management expertise with psychological principles
. You will learn to analyse and apply human behaviour in the workplace and in marketing and sales contexts. Engaging modules such as
Emotions in the Workplace
and
Psychological Approaches to Personnel Selection
will equip you with the skills needed for human resource management and advertising psychology roles.
Alongside the psychological components, you will receive a solid foundation in business studies, enriched by practical projects designed to enhance your intercultural and social competencies. Additionally, an optional semester abroad provides an opportunity to gain further international experience.
Contact us to receive more information about the curriculum and explore your career opportunities after graduation!
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
I see business psychology as an obvious subject of the future. The human resources sector is a growth market and is becoming increasingly important, especially from a psychological perspective. Due to the demographic change, there is a shortage of skilled workers, so we are reaching our limits when it comes to technology and digitalisation. Companies can only win this battle if they organise work in a way that suits the people who work in these organisations and if they offer good working conditions.
Prof. Dr. Carsten C. Schermuly | Professor of Business Psychology, SRH
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Research Associate
Research Associate
Professor
Professor
Professor
Teaching Quality Officer
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Citizenship | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine)
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €690 per month
Hamburg: €620 per month
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €790 per month
Hamburg : €650 per month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €4,725 per semester
Hamburg,: €3,900 per semester
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €5,355 per semester
Hamburg: €4,500 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in International Business Administration - Business Psychology
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Introduction Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: