Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/short-courses/change-management-executive-programme/

Short Courses
Certificate
Join our short course and learn about effective change management. Thanks to the BCG partnership, you gain an understanding of transformation processes and successful stakeholder involvement while applying your expertise to real business cases.
Contact us
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Certificate
Start:
Quarterly
Model:
part time
Language:
English
Duration:
12 weeks
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€10,000
Partnership
with Boston Consulting Group
In a rapidly changing world, where organisations are facing increasing pressure to adapt and transform due to macroeconomic uncertainty as well as supply chain challenges and other complicating factors, change management has become a critical factor for organisations to sustain in the long run. Effective change management can ensure success by doing the right things at the right time to the right degree, making change employee-centric, ensuring support from leadership and setting a value maximising pace of transformation.
The Change Management Executive Programme enables professionals with an interest in large-scale transformation to learn about the critical elements of successful change management programmes. It is delivered through a wide variety of self-paced online courses and instructor-led classes and jointly delivered by SRH professors and BCG experts. The training content is built on the world class change management approach and methodology by the renowned consultancy
Boston Consulting Group
, supplemented by hands-on exercises and case studies.
During the Change Management short course, you will learn about the critical elements of successful change management programmes. You will…
explore how to set a strategic vision by defining transformation purpose and a reason for change,
learn how to align and activate leaders,
get employee support by developing a targeted communication and engagement strategy,
dive into the world of behaviour change and nudging to understand how to achieve sustainable behaviour change,
explore the role of the Chief Transformation Officer (CTO) and learn how to effectively set up and manage transformational programmes
get to know foundational tools and enablers to accelerate transformation and
apply your learnings to real-world case studies.
Sharpen your professional profile and increase your career opportunities with fundamental expertise in change and transformation management. Take advantage of the networking opportunities during the course and grow your professional and personal network.
After finishing the programme, you will…
understand the key change management principles and activities
know about best-in-class tactics for managing complex transformation programmes
have gained an understanding of critical change management approaches to drive leadership alignment, employee engagement and programme management
have increased your knowledge of critical tools and enablers to accelerate the success of a change management programme
transfer and apply your new expertise to real world problems and day-to-day scenarios
Our professor
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Ronald Glasberg
is Professor for International Strategic Management, Head of Institute for International Strategic Management & Innovations, Head of the SRH Accreditation Commission. He focuses on the development of new strategic management tools and mindsets for start-ups and international enterprises to cope with unforeseen and unexpected events. His aim is to formulate unique action-oriented recommendations for enterprises depending on their particular strategic, innovation, financial, personnel and risk management starting points.
Our professor
Prof. Dr. Michael Hartmann
is the Academic Director of the School of Technology and Architecture. He focuses on management concepts and knowledge management for sustainable energy supply based on renewable energies. In this context, he developed, among other things, training programmes on renewable energies together with international partners and senior technical colleges in Berlin.
Our Boston Consulting Group experts have extensive experience across multiple industries and sectors. They leverage BCG’s battle-tested approach and methodology that have been applied to 2,000+ projects around the globe in the past 5 years and combine it with individual client experience and best practices.
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Professor
EUR 10,000
If you…
are a working professional with a minimum of 2 years work experience
are interested in change and transformation management
... we invite you to join our Change Management Executive Programme.
Please provide the following with your application:
proof of proficient English language skills (at least B2/C1 level) or native speaker,
letter of motivation and
curriculum vitae.
We are happy to welcome you to our Change Management course. This is our application process:
Please apply to join our Change Management Executive Programme by contacting
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Ronald Glasberg
.
After submitting your documents, we will review them and invite you to an interview if you meet the criteria.
You transfer the course fee.
You join the programme (self-paced courses and instructor-led live classes).
After finishing the course, you receive a certificate and stay in contact thanks to our online follow-up activities.
Do you still have questions?
Share: