Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/computer-science/i/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Science | Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig, Stuttgart, Munich
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Heidelberg, Stuttgart, Munich!*
When it comes to optimising digital services, IT experts are always in high demand. Are you passionate about IT systems, mobile apps and AI? Are you interested in software development? Then the B.Sc. Computer Science is the right choice for you.
Request information
Apply now
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Heidelberg, Stuttgart, Munich!*
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210 (International Experience Track); 180 (Fast Track)
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years (International Experience Track); 6 semesters/3 years (Fast Track)
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Heidelberg,
									
										Leipzig,
									
										München,
									
										Stuttgart
Costs:
from €650 per month
*New Study locations:
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Heidelberg, Munich, Stuttgart
Our B.Sc. Computer Science programme will teach you how to handle internet, cloud and mobile technologies. You learn how to implement, configure and modify application and multimedia systems and know how to develop and successfully implement user-centred digital products and services.
You deepen your knowledge of the major principles, methods and techniques of the most important programming paradigms and the associated programming and markup languages and you are able to conceptualise, implement and evaluate software solutions for applications and systems.
Thanks to the skill- and project-based approach, you also get to know agile methods and strengthen your communication and team-working skills in projects and your internship.
Thanks to your comprehensive education in the B.Sc. Computer Science programme and the high demand for computer science specialist, you will have a wide range of career opportunities after graduation.
Choose from the following career paths:
System Developer (Software Developer)
Application Developer (Software Developer)
Application Administrator
Application Consultant
IT Service Manager
IT Project Manager
IT Consultant
In addition, your Bachelor of Science degree will give you access to numerous postgraduate and Master's degree programmes throughout Germany and beyond.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
The Bachelor's programme in Computer Science teaches you all the essential basics of computer science in a practical way, from mathematics, programming and electronics to artificial intelligence, cloud computing and data security. Through labs and projects, you will gain valuable practical experience and work on innovative solutions.
You will learn to solve complex problems, work in teams and manage projects efficiently. Internships and research projects allow you to establish contacts with the industry during your studies.
Curious? Request your information material on the Bachelor of Computer Science programme now!
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 222
Contact me
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
15.02.2025
Get to know our study programmes, professors and the new SRH Campus Munich
Anmeldung/Registration
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees Berlin
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €690 / month
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €790 / month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €4,800 / semester
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €5,500 / semester
Tuition fees Leipzig & Stuttgart
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €650 / month
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €690 / month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €4,500 / semester
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €4,900 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Computer Science
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
You still have questions?
Share: