Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/creative-industries-management/c/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin
Study Creative Industries Management and learn to support, market and manage success in the creative industries. The B.A. programme prepares you to start your own business or to work for companies that look for innovative approaches to management.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
The B.A. Creative Industries Management study programme adapts all-time management classics to the complex and dynamic world of the cultural and creative industries and the broader creative economy. Communication, culture, and arts as well as entrepreneurship have been added to the course to develop your critical understanding and diverse skill set.
During your studies, you can focus on one of three areas:
Music,
Visual Arts or
General Creative Industries Management.
This English-language programme in the heart of cosmopolitan Berlin attracts German and international students from all over the world who have talent, tolerance and want to do business in new way. They cherish learning and working across cultural boundaries. You become part of a diverse, international, and supportive community whose members co-create their learning experiences on a day-to-day basis.
You will learn about diverse business models, strategies and practices and develop your own identity as a creative manager. You will be able to train your management skills and deepen your knowledge about non-traditional industries and the arts, as well as social, sustainable, and cultural organisations. You will gain further practical experience in managing and marketing creative processes and products through numerous hands-on projects with fellow students from different study programmes and in collaboration with our diverse network partners.
Having completed your B.A. Creative Industries Management degree, you know how to manage projects and processes successfully.
As an expert in trends and innovation, communication, organisational development, team leadership and creative processes, you will have a wide range of career opportunities in the creative economy and beyond:
Management and marketing in businesses and organisations in the creative industries (advertising, architecture, arts and crafts, design, fashion, film, photography, music, performing arts, publishing, software, games, tourism and leisure, television and radio)
Professional service firms, delivering services to the creative industries (e.g. Communication, event, and marketing agencies)
Business associations and policy makers in the field
Businesses in other industries that are seeking creative talent in areas such as innovation and change management
Communication, event and marketing agencies
Communication, media relations, and marketing departments of companies
Working as a freelancer and entrepreneur with your own business
Your path to the future
Start your application now
The Bachelor's programme in Creative Industries Management (B.A.) immerses you in the media and creative industries while you implement your first practical projects in music, art and creative writing. You will learn international marketing strategies, digital production management techniques and the basics of financing and project management. In the fifth semester, you will gain practical experience through an internship or study abroad programme. In the final semesters, you will develop your leadership style and write your Bachelor's thesis, focussing on innovation and creativity. Thus, the programme will prepare you for the challenges of the creative industries and help you kick-start your future career.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Arts Manager and Managing Director, Causales GmbH
https://cultural-brands.com/
Independent Curator
http://suzyroyal.com
Head of Casting, Friedrichstadt-Palast
https://www.palast.berlin/en/
previous slide
next slide
04.06.2024
01.07.2022
01.12.2022
01.09.2022
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 209
Contact me
Professor
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer
E-mail:
[email protected]
More information
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4740 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Creative Industries Management
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Letter of motivation
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
During the interview, we want to learn more about your programme-specific knowledge, creativity and motivation. It will also give you the opportunity to ask more detailed questions about the study programme. If you are unable to come to Berlin, we are happy to offer you an appointment online.
Admission requirements in detail
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: