Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-management-creative-leadership/b/

Master
International Management
Creative Leadership
Master of Arts | Berlin
Innovative and creative - become part of our interdisciplinary management programme. In addition to classic business knowledge, you'll learn about creative leadership and management concepts and develop your methods and soft skills in projects.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
Award
The M.A. International Management - Creative Leadership has the FIBAA Premium Seal
The programme combines international management theories with creative leadership approaches as well as real business experience, and helps develop your skills as a manager of tomorrow.
You learn how to apply a range of creative, artistic and entrepreneurial methods in management and gain advanced business knowledge in areas such as strategy, project and risk management as well as contract and international management. While working on projects you hone your communication, social and leadership skills.
Thanks to an interdisciplinary management education that includes management and creative modules as well as a project and skill-oriented concept, you will become an expert who can work in a variety of industries, professions and countries.
Choose from the following career paths:
Positions in Strategic Management
Business Development Manager
Management positions in International Companies and the Creative Industries
Positions in Communications and Marketing
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the first semesters of your Master's programme in
International Management - Creative Leadership
, you will acquire comprehensive knowledge in creative thinking, innovation management and strategic communication. You will learn how to stimulate creative processes in teams and develop innovative solutions for complex challenges. Through hands-on projects and workshops, you will gain valuable experience and be able to implement your ideas in real-life scenarios.
As you progress, your focus will be on leading and developing creative teams in an international context. You'll familiarise yourself intensively with change management methods, learn to consider cultural differences and work successfully in interdisciplinary teams.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to gain valuable practical experience, whether through internships or project work with companies. Before writing your Master's thesis, you will apply the concepts and methods you have learnt to develop creative solutions to real-world problems.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
FIBAA PREMIUM SEAL
Our International Management Master's - Creative Leadership programme has the
FIBAA Premium Seal
. With this seal, the European accreditation agency FIBAA, confirms SRH Berlin's
outstanding quality
in various assessment categories such as
international focus, employability, promotion of job-relevant skills, interdisciplinarity and collaboration
.
The FIBAA Premium Seal was established by FIBAA in order to identify and acknowledge study programmes with outstanding quality in all five core areas (goals and strategies, admissions, implementation, academic setting and general conditions, quality assurance). The evaluation certifies that these programmes considerably surpass all of the quality requirements outlined by FIBAA.
The distinction of a FIBAA Premium Seal gives students, prospective students, graduates, universities, and the job market a reliable indication of the exceptional quality of the study programme.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
05.06.2024
26.04.2024
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in International Management - Creative Leadership
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: