Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/cybermacs/i/

Master
Erasmus Mundus Joint Master's Programme
CyberMACS | Applied Cybersecurity
Master of Science | Istanbul & Berlin or Istanbul & Skopje
The joint European Master's CyberMACS in Applied Cybersecurity provides you with a solid background in IT security. Apart from addressing global cybersecurity challenges, you also gain international experience by studying in two countries.
CyberMACS Brochure
Application via Kadir Has Univesity
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st september
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€5,175
Study in 2 countries
Study in Istanbul & Berlin or Istanbul & Skopje
Scholarships available
15 scholarships of €1,400 per month
In today's digital landscape, cyber threats are an omnipresent concern, hiding in every corner and impacting businesses and individuals through devastating global data breaches. Understanding this evolving cybersecurity environment is crucial. Thus, our CyberMACS programme is designed to meet this need by equipping you with the necessary skills to detect, prevent, mitigate, and manage these digital threats effectively.
During your Erasmus Mundus joint Master's programme you learn about current topics, such as cybersecurity, data science, cryptography, networks, and penetration testing while training your hands-on and intercultural skills. Additionally, you'll have the opportunity to engage with and learn from cybersecurity experts, including scientists, specialists, as well as key figures from various sectors.
Your first year at Kadis Has University in Istanbul, Turkey, lays the groundwork in core cybersecurity principles. This includes classroom learning complemented by real-world experiences through a winter school, a summer school/conference, and a two-month industrial internship.
In the second year, the programme offers you a choice to specialise based on your career goals.
You can move to Germany and delve into
Advanced Technologies in Cybersecurity and Cyber Security Management
at the
SRH campus in Berlin
OR
you move to North-Macedonia and focus on
Web & Cybersecurity or Cryptology
at
UKIM in Skopje
.
Upon completion, you will earn a double degree Master's that reflects your specialisation, preparing you well to tackle the existing and upcoming challenges in cybersecurity.
Thanks to the CyberMACS programme you will be equipped for an international career in cybersecurity, preparing you to become a leader in this rapidly growing field.
The Master's in Applied Cybersecurity opens up rewarding opportunities across various industries as well as the public and private sector. You can work in:
Cybersecurity Firms
Consulting Agencies
Critical Infrastructure Institutions
Product Development
Data Protection
System Penetration
Research and Development
As a graduate, you'll be a highly skilled professional ready for roles such as:
Cybersecurity Expert
Cybersecurity Analyst
Security Architect
Cryptographer
Malware Analyst
and many more
The Erasmus Mundus programme also lays a solid foundation for pursuing doctoral studies or advancing in academic research.
Your path to the future
Apply now for the programme via Kadir Has University (Istanbul, Turkey)
An Erasmus Mundus Joint Master's programme is a prestigious, integrated, international study programme, jointly delivered by an international consortium of higher education institutions from different countries. The programme is funded by the European Union and aims to enhance the quality of European higher education and promote dialogue and understanding between people and cultures through cooperation with Third Countries.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Costs and funding
We are committed to accessible education and are pleased to offer students with limited financial resources the opportunity to obtain a highly qualified Master's degree.
The funding from the European Commission includes
15 scholarships of EUR 1,400 per month
for each cohort of the programme.
This financial support enables the scholarship holders to cover accommodation, travel and living expenses during the two-year duration of the programme and exempts them from paying tuition fees.
For students who do not receive a scholarship
, the
registration and tuition fees for the entire programme amount to EUR 5,175
.
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees for the entire programme without a scholarship:
EUR 5,175
You can apply at any time via
Kadir Has University (Istanbul, Turkey)
.
To apply for the
CyberMACS Master's programme in Applied Cybersecurity
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Business Information Systems, Physics, Mathematics or a similar area of studies
Letter of motivation
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
Two letters of recommendation
If applicable: list of publications
English language requirements:
TOEFL 92 ibt
CAE (grade A, B, or C)
CPE (grade A, B or C or C1)
Pearson English Test Academic (PTE-A) 67 points
Apply now!
Next application period for the September 2025 intake: 1 September 2024 - 15 December 2024
Share: