Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/computer-science-cyber-security/i/

Master
Computer Science
Cyber Security
Master of Science | Berlin & Leipzig
It's the IT topic of the 21st century! The Master's in Cyber Security at SRH turns you into an information security specialist with profound IT knowledge who knows how to plan and implement cyber security systems and measures in companies.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st April; 1st October
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210 (General Track); 180 (Fast Track)
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years (General Track); 3 semesters/1.5 years (Fast Track)
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Leipzig
Costs:
from €750 per month
Our Master’s programme helps you become a cyber security specialist who does not only possess profound IT knowledge but also knows how to design and implement security systems and measures in different business environments.
You will learn about current topics such as Blockchain, DevSecOps as well as crypto currencies and receive a comprehensive education in the area of information security. In addition to expertise in security technologies, IT security management and data analysis, you will become familiar with business processes and organisational theory as well as with the legal challenges of data protection.
You will have the project management skills to implement IT security measures and the communication skills to educate colleagues and staff about potential cyber security risks in their daily work. Thanks to your business expertise and your range of soft skills, you will be a graduate that modern organisations are looking for.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management positions within risk analysis companies, public and financial institutions as well as central banks
IT Consultant
Information Security Specialist
IT Manager
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Cyber Security Master's programme, you will learn to apply advanced data analysis techniques, cloud technologies, artificial intelligence and IT security solutions. You will acquire knowledge in penetration testing, IT security management and the implementation of security management systems. Your internship will allow you to apply your knowledge directly and gain valuable work experience. Finally, you will deepen your research and cyber security skills in your Master's thesis. After completing the Computer Science study programme, you will be prepared for a successful career in cyber security.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees Berlin
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
Tuition fees Leipzig
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €750 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €5,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Computer Science - Cyber Security
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science
,
Information Systems or a similar area of studies
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: