Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/dance-movement-therapy/t/

Master
Master of Arts | Heidelberg
Would you like to live out your passion for dancing and do good at the same time? Our Dance Movement Therapy Master will help you learn to enhance your patients’ body awareness and to use the healing effect of movement.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
German
ECTS:
120
Info:
Duration:
4 semesters
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
690 € per month
Dance Movement Therapy and other arts therapies are increasingly popular in healthcare, and the research base for these fields is growing. The degree programme in Dance Movement Therapy takes a total of two years, including an intensive placement phase. The range of classes includes dance therapy techniques, psychological/medical expertise and scientific methods. The degree programme will enable you to use movement analysis and dance therapy techniques for targeted diagnostic purposes. In the campus outpatient clinic and during placements, you will practice the knowledge and skills gained under the guidance of mentors. You will have the opportunity to participate in a wide range of research projects.
The scientific foundations and the methodological and professional skills gained on the Master’s programme in Dance Movement Therapy will enable you to work in a clinical, therapeutic or special needs context (e.g. in psychiatry, neurology, paediatrics or palliative care). You will also be able to pursue a career in research and work towards a doctorate.
Some of your career perspectives
Psychiatric clinics
Psychosomatic and psychotherapeutic clinics
Clinics specializing in neurology
Geriatric institutions, homes for seniors
Institutions for people with mental and/or physical disabilities
Oncology departments as well as after-care centers
Centers for pain treatment and palliative care
Centers for vocational rehabilitation
Psychosocial consulting centers
Establishment of private practice
The scientific foundations and the methodological and professional skills gained on the Master’s programme in Dance Movement Therapy will enable you to work in a clinical, therapeutic or special needs context (e.g. in psychiatry, neurology, paediatrics or palliative care). You will also be able to pursue a career in research and work towards a doctorate.
The skills gained can also be transferred independently to other clinical areas such as forensics, geriatrics or curative education. Setting up a practice is regulated by law under the Alternative Medical Practitioners Act (HeilprG) and requires a separate state examination (alternative medical practitioner / psychotherapy).
The degree programme is recognised by the German Professional Organisation For Dance Therapists (BTD). Evidence of additional achievements must be provided to be accepted into the BTD.
previous slide
next slide
07.12.2024
Would you like to experience our Master's program Dance and Movement Therapy live? Prof. Dr. Sabine C. Koch and Claudia Sauerborn, MA will give you insights into the theory and practice of this exciting field of work.
Online
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
The Master's degree programme in Dance and Movement Therapy at SRH University provides you with comprehensive theoretical and practical knowledge. To begin with, you will learn the scientific foundations, psychology and initial techniques of dance and movement therapy. As you progress, you will deepen your knowledge of clinical psychology and neurology and gain practical experience through clinical placements. You will learn about evidence-based practices, specialised diagnostics and interdisciplinary approaches and carry out in-depth internships. The course is rounded off by the topics of professionalisation, ethics and law as well as the preparation of your Master's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information material. You will also find the complete curriculum there.
Order information material
Certificate
Our SRH University has proven its qualification as a training institute for the Dance and Movement Therapy (M.A.) programme in accordance with the standards of the Berufsverband der TanztherapeutInnen Deutschlands e.V. (German Professional Association of Dance Therapists) and is therefore entitled to use the title
BTD Training Institute
.
previous slide
next slide
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
In addition to technical and methodological skills, social and personal skills are crucial today.
SRH University
's innovative, successful and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly in practice - for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Professor
Study Advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
690 € / month
Enrolment fee 750 €.
If you come from a non-EEA country without a residence permit, the enrolment fee is €1,000 - you must pay the tuition fees for one semester in advance. From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the study period already paid for.
In addition to efficient organisation, a goal-oriented course of study also requires a solid financial basis in order to be able to pay rent, living costs and tuition fees. There are various financing options, such as BAföG, student loans or scholarship programmes.
We have listed all financing options
here
here.
About your financing options
You can register at any time without obligation via our
online portal
to apply. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's degree programme in Dance and Movement Therapy
, you will need
general higher education entrance qualification (Abitur), the subject-specific higher education entrance qualification (subject-restricted Abitur) or the entrance qualification for universities of applied sciences
have a Bachelor's degree in the social sciences, humanities or arts
have successfully completed the selection procedure*.
If you come from abroad, you can be admitted,
If you can provide us with a university entrance qualification in the form of certificates from your previous education and sufficient knowledge of German (DSH or TestDaF exam) and if you have also successfully completed our selection procedure.
Admission requirements in the Deatil
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You apply online via the SRH application portal
If you fulfil the admission requirements, we will invite you to a selection interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and a study contract from us
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
We will send you your letter of admission
You take part in our induction week and then you're ready to go!
Apply now
Share:
To the study counselling
Our study programmes
Do you have any questions? Give us a call.
Let's get to know each other
Apply