Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/digital-supply-chain-management/g/

Master
Supply Chain Management
Digital Supply Chain Management
Master of Science | Berlin
Our Digital Supply Chain Management programme equips you with the skills to plan, manage and analyse digital supply chain solutions. Thanks to the hands-on and skill-based approach you also get to train the soft skills that employers are looking for.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
The digitalisation of the global economy, socio-political changes, and cost pressures have a big impact on the logistics and supply chain industry. Thus, companies are looking for experts who know how to tackle digital change and use insights from data to come up with innovative supply chain solutions and business strategies.
Learn how to manage these challenges and become part of a new generation of supply chain managers who know how to deal with new digital solutions and complex SCM platforms while working in a global and diverse environment. You learn about key supply chain concepts, digital tools, and their application. You gain an understanding of Supply Chain Management 4.0, Innovation Management, Process Management and Big Data and become proficient in current topics such as Business Intelligence, Digital Transformation, and Operations Research.
You understand the use and adaptation of SAP, a leading Enterprise Resource Planning system, and know how to program apps. You extend your knowledge of the platform economy and digital business models while using agile methods in study projects. Thanks to the project- and skill-based approach of the programme, you are able to train your leadership, communication and intercultural skills and are therefore well-prepared for demanding digital supply chain management positions around the globe.
Students will receive a certificate for their learning experience in SAP - in the modules Sales & Distribution (SD), Material Management (MM) and Production Planning (PP) - as part of their education at SRH University.
As a Digital Supply Chain Management graduate you benefit from a thorough business education with a digital focus. Thanks to the industry-relevant curriculum, you are prepared for the supply chain challenges of the future and are a sought-after professional in global and digital businesses.
Career opportunities for Supply Chain Managers with technological expertise lie within the retail, production, technology, and healthcare industry as well as in start-ups, SMEs, and global corporations.
Choose from the following career paths:
Supply Chain Manager
Logistics Manager
Operations Planner
Digital Supply Chain Specialist
Digital Supply Chain Consultant
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
The Master's degree programme in Digital Supply Chain Management at SRH University Campus Berlin offers you a practical education that prepares you specifically for the requirements of digital logistics. In the first semesters, the focus is on key topics such as global supply chain management, digital platforms and sustainable supply chains. You will also learn the basics of process management and international management strategies.
Advanced modules such as app programming, ERP customisation and digital supply chain labs prepare you optimally for practical application. A particular focus is on working with SAP systems, where you will deepen your skills in the customisation and application of these leading ERP solutions. You will complete your studies with a Master's thesis, in which you can apply the knowledge you have learnt in a real-life project, as well as an internship or your own start-up project, which will provide you with valuable practical insights.
You will also train your leadership and decision-making skills in leadership and entrepreneurship modules so that you are ideally equipped as a future manager in digital logistics.
We will be happy to send you further information material. You will also find the full curriculum there.
Order information material
Project
In teams and under the direction of Prof Dr Torsten Becker, students at
are developing innovative supply chain apps, including a customer status app, a storage space tool and an inventory manager.
About the project
Our CORE principle
In addition to technical and methodological skills, social and personal skills are crucial today.
SRH University
's innovative, successful and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly in practice – for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Digital Supply Chain Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Logistics
,
Business Engineering
,
Business Administration/Management
,
Engineering
or IT
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: