Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/digital-transformation-management/b/

Master
Master of Science | Hamburg
Boost business with our Digital Transformation Master's programme! Here, you'll gain the skills to assist businesses in navigating digital disruption and driving lasting change. Engage in project work to enhance both your soft skills and expertise.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1 April; 1 October
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Hamburg
Costs:
from €750 per month
Our Master's programme provides you with a modern, digital business education with a technological focus.
You will learn how to support companies with their digital transformation processes and how to involve relevant stakeholders. You will become acquainted with the specifics of digital business models and the power of disruptive innovations. You will be able to use different methods of idea generation in order to promote digital change in companies.
Modules on innovation management, change management and process management strengthen your expertise while current topics such as strategic management, organisational development, intercultural management and diversity are also integrated into the curriculum.
Thanks to the skill and project focus of the programme, you will train your communication, conflict resolution and teamworking skills and become well-versed in agile project management and coaching methods.
Your semester abroad will also help you broaden your horizons by spending a semester at a partner university or completing an internship.
As an expert for digital transformation, you are able to advise companies and institutions on change processes. This way, you will help to develop new products and services and discover unknown and untapped business units, industries and markets. Thanks to your elective modules, you can also focus on current topics: Business Analytics or Cyber Security.
With your degree, you can start a career as a:
Digital Transformation Manager
Digital Business Manager
Innovation Manager
Change Manager
Business Development Manager
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Master's degree programme in Digital Transformation Management, you will acquire in-depth knowledge of the principles of digital transformation and learn how technological innovations are changing business models. You will develop skills in the implementation of digital business strategies and data-based decision-making.
In the later semesters, the focus is on the strategic application of IT solutions and change management. A practical phase allows you to apply theoretical knowledge in practice before you complete the programme with your Master's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information. You will also find the complete curriculum there.
Graduates of the Digital Transformation Management degree programme have good career opportunities to support companies and their employees in the digital transformation of processes.
Sebastian Apprecht | Founder, Managing Partner, Effekt.digital
As a result of the digital transformation, the management of strategy-, technology- and data-driven change processes is increasingly becoming a key skill for future managers.
Marcus Dodt, MBA, M. A. | Senior Consultant, #FORTSCHRITT
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Internship abroad
Studying & living in places you've always wanted to see? During your semester abroad, you have the chance to get a taste of international working life, get to know other cultures and improve your language skills.
1001 possibilities.
previous slide
next slide
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 40 334656 14
Contact me
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €750 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €5450 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master’s programme in Digital Transformation Management, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
economics, computer science, business informatics and related disciplines
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: