Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/data-science-digital-health/i/

Master
Data Science
Digital Health
Master of Science | Fürth
Companies and institutions in the healthcare sector are looking for competent data scientists, who have a solid understanding for handling and creating valuable insights from big data. Be a part of this revolution and shape the future with us!
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Fuerth
Costs:
from 680 € per month
The Master's programme in Data Science - Digital Health will give you the skills to evaluate data strategically in various healthcare sectors using modern AI methods and machine learning processes. The focus is on analysis and the appropriate visualisation of results: you can only create valuable insights if the results can be interpreted. The degree programme also explores critical aspects of digital health in greater depth, allowing you to hone your profile as a specialist for current issues in the healthcare industry.
The programme offers comprehensive training in digital health analytics, health management, and the fundamentals of digital health. You will acquire in-depth knowledge of statistics, programming, and data management, supplemented by data analysis and visualisation. Topics such as health law, ethics, market access, and digital business models are also covered. The programme emphasises modern approaches such as e-health and telemedicine to prepare you for the challenges of digital transformation in the healthcare sector.
As a graduate of the Master's programme in Data Science - Digital Health, you will have a wide range of career options. The combination of practical and methodological skills and theoretical foundations enables you to develop a sought-after profile for a variety of career prospects:
Data Science and Business Intelligence
Data understanding and data visualisation
Project and programme management
Strategy consulting
Innovation and leadership
Product development and entrepreneurship
Public authorities in the healthcare sector
Training, research and development
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Master's programme in Data Science - Digital Health at SRH University's Fürth campus, you will learn how to apply data analysis in the healthcare sector to improve medical and organisational decisions. The focus is developing digital solutions that make patient care more efficient and precise. You will learn how to handle healthcare data from various sources, analyse it and use it to make evidence-based decisions in the healthcare sector. Both technical expertise and an understanding of the unique requirements of the healthcare sector play a crucial role here.
The highlight modules include:
Health Data Analytics
: In this module, you will analyse medical and clinical data to identify trends and patterns that help improve therapies and diagnoses.
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare
: Learn how artificial intelligence is used in healthcare, e.g. to support imaging or patient prognosis.
Health Informatics & Data Management
: This module deals with handling electronic health data, databases and digital healthcare systems.
Ethics & Data Security in Healthcare
: You will examine the legal and ethical challenges of data use in the healthcare sector, particularly those related to patient data.
With this knowledge, you will be prepared for positions such as data scientists or health data analysts in which you develop data-based solutions for the healthcare sector.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Chief Innovation Officer
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €680 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €4,500 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €500 (EU/EEA) or €900 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Data Science - Digital Health
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Computer Science, Business Informatics, Economics, Health Economics, or a similar area of studies
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Introduction Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: