Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration-digital-marketing/b/

Bachelor
International Business Administration
Digital Marketing
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin, Hamburg
Learn how to scale international brands and make sound business decisions with our cutting-edge digital marketing degree. This Bachelor's programme includes integrated projects to strengthen your marketing know-how and build your soft skills.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 or 210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
6 or 7 semesters/3 or 3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Hamburg
Costs:
from €620 per month
Fine-tuned marketing strategies
drive the
core decisions
of any modern business. The days of guessing are over – hard data and customer insights now allow marketers to craft laser-targeted messages to an engaged audience. In other words, skilled digital marketing directly influences revenue.
The distinguishing feature that sets this programme apart is that it is a
business administration degree
by nature — it sets you up for a solid career in this environment.
The
focus on digital marketing
takes a broad approach. Instead of confining you to specialist roles, this
comprehensive teaching method
gives you flexibility in your career choices. As a result, the knowledge and competencies you earn
last longer
than the fast-paced technological innovations in this field.
Based in Berlin,
Germany's tech hub and startup capital
, we designed this industry-friendly bachelor's degree especially for you – to explore different
management disciplines
and deepen your knowledge in the
operational fields
of digital marketing.
Your skills from this
International Business Administration
degree will allow you to navigate a
business of any size
through the stormiest of waters.
Your curriculum includes
specialised marketing topics
such as brand management, communication, online marketing, advertising psychology, and
hands-on projects
to develop your creative, social, and analytical skills.
You will also graduate with a
deep understanding
of the guardrails that guide successful businesses, such as international business law, investment management, and accounting.
Enhance your experience with the following choices:
6-semester/3-year option (Fast Track)
7-semester/3.5-year option (International Experience Track – includes internship/semester abroad)
As a holder of a digital marketing degree you benefit from a solid management foundation that enables you to work on complex problems independently and efficiently, thus opening the door to marketing-related fields such as strategic management or consulting.
Choose from the following career paths:
Digital marketing manager
Product manager
Brand management expert
Content strategist
Market and consumer researcher
Marketing and business consultant
Positions in advertising and communication
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the B.A. International Business Administration - Digital Marketing programme at SRH University, you will learn to develop and implement digital marketing strategies successfully. From SEO and social media to content marketing, you'll gain in-depth knowledge in market research, brand management, and consumer behaviour. This programme combines essential business fundamentals with innovative digital tools, and you'll work on real-life projects throughout your practical studies to refine your skills. This experience will prepare you thoroughly for the demands of the international market and the digital economy.
Contact us to receive more information about the curriculum and explore your career opportunities after graduation!
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Interview | Starting a business during his studies
What company did you found and how did it come about?
I founded my TikTok Marketing Agency
klickkraft.de
in 2022. This came about as I built a
TikTok
channel with over 100,000 subscribers at the beginning of Covid. Since many companies contacted me because of my videos, I decided to start an agency to support them in achieving their goals.
How can you use the content from your studies in your activity as a founder?
One of the most important qualities that supported me in my founding phase is social competence. Organizational skills and selling ideas were also important. In modules at SRH, I was able to refine my skills for this. Through constant practice of these skills in presentations and lectures, I was able to perfect them.
What do you like about studying at SRH?
Studying at SRH allowed me to gain experience as an entrepreneur and self-employed person parallel to my studies. Additionally, I was encouraged and supported by a competent environment, which was further enhanced by the small classes. Since I was in close contact with the teachers, I could turn to them directly with questions.
Project | Smart Food Markt
Students conceptualise a sustainable liquid meal including product & logo creation and communication measures.
View Project
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Teaching Quality Officer
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Citizenship | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine)
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €690 per month
Hamburg: €620 per month
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €790 per month
Hamburg : €650 per month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €4,725 per semester
Hamburg,: €3,900 per semester
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €5,355 per semester
Hamburg: €4,500 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in International Business Administration - Digital Marketing
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Introduction Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: