Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/bls/digital-transformation-management-berufsbegleitend/

Master
Master of Science | Hamburg
Der Master Digital Transformation berufsbegleitend ist die Schnittstelle zwischen Business und Technologie. Lerne, Innovationen zu fördern und digitalen Wandel nachhaltig zu gestalten. Dabei stärkst du deine Expertise und relevante Soft Skills.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1. April; 1. Oktober
Model:
extra-occupational
Language:
German
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
5 Semester
Location:
Hamburg
Costs:
ab 632 € pro Monat
									
										-
Show costs split
Digital transformation and the associated change processes pose major challenges for many companies, but also offer great opportunities.
With our part-time Master's degree programme in Digital Transformation Management, you will learn how to take advantage of these opportunities in digital transformation for yourself and your company and emerge more successfully from changing times.
During and after your studies, you will be able to use modern tools and processes to analyse digital technologies and business models, harness their potential for companies in the long term and promote and develop innovations in a targeted manner.
You will learn about the impact of disruptive innovations and how new ideas and concepts can be promoted in the best possible way. You will learn how important sustainable change is and how employees can be motivated to actively and enthusiastically help shape change.
Seminars on innovation management, change management and process management are just as much a part of the curriculum as the topics of agile project management, coaching methods, leadership, strategy and organisational development.
Thanks to the project and competence orientation of the Master's programme, you will strengthen your soft skills, apply your new expertise directly in your everyday professional and academic life and, thanks to the structure of the programme, you will be able to combine your further education, your career and your private life.
Our degree programme prepares you for challenging positions and tasks that are determined by digital transformation.
The M.Sc. Digital Transformation Management helps you to recognise new opportunities, initiate innovations and successfully implement accompanying processes. You will know how to accompany companies through digital change and win over new business models and fields.
In addition to a modern and digitally orientated management education, you will also focus on one of the following topics: Business Analytics, Digital Marketing, Cyber Security or Product & Service Engineering.
Your Master of Science degree will enable you to pursue further career opportunities, deepen your existing expertise or set a new focus. This opens up career paths in the following and other areas:
Digital Transformation Management
Digital Business Management
Innovation Management
change management
Business Development Management
and more
The accredited Master's degree is internationally recognised and also entitles you to a doctorate.
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
Graduates of the Digital Transformation Management degree programme have good career opportunities to support companies in the digital transformation of processes and employees.
Sebastian Apprecht | Founder, Managing Partner, Effekt.digital
As a result of the digital transformation, the management of strategy-, technology- and data-driven change processes is increasingly becoming a key skill for future managers.
Marcus Dodt, MBA, M. A. | Senior Consultant, #FORTSCHRITT
Our CORE principle
In addition to technical and methodological skills, social and personal skills are crucial today.
SRH University
's innovative, successful and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly in practice - for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 40 334656 14
Contact me
This is how much studying costs
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Students with EU/EEA citizenship (incl. Western Balkans, Switzerland, Ukraine): €632 / month
Students with non-EU/EEA citizenship:
€ 3,792 / semester
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire period of study. The one-off enrolment fee is EUR 750.00.
If you come from a non-EEA country without a residence permit, the enrolment fee is €1,000 - you must pay the tuition fees for one semester in advance. From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the study period already paid for. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
BAfÖG, SRH Berlin Education Fund, educational loans or Germany Scholarship - you have numerous options to finance your studies. On our page
Financing & Scholarships
we have compiled the most important information for you.
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
with no obligation. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master's programme in
Digital Transformation Management | part-time
, you will need
University or university of applied sciences degree (Bachelor or Diplom) in
business, computer science, business informatics and related disciplines
- please submit degree certificate and your transcript of records.
OR university or university of applied sciences degree in another field + at least 6 months of relevant professional experience
Letter of motivation
Certificate of general or advanced technical college entrance qualification
Curriculum vitae
Copy of identity card
We look forward to meeting you! This is what our application process looks like:
You apply online via the
SRH application portal
.
If you fulfil the admission requirements, we will invite you to an interview (admission test)
If you pass the admission test, we will send you the acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the application fee
We issue you with your letter of admission
You take part in our induction week and off you go!
Apply now
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
Share: