Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/mba/doctor-of-business-administration/b/

MBA & DBA
DBA | Berlin & Liverpool
Get the highest academic degree in management education. With the part-time Doctor of Business Administration (DBA), you get to apply your leadership skills to a real business case and take your company to the next level.
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Start:
February 2025
Model:
part time
Language:
English
ECTS:
360 (UK credits)
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
£13,755 per year
Degree
DBA degree by Liverpool Joon Moores University
The DBA is a part-time degree programme
designed for managers and executives
who want to earn a
professional doctoral degree
and develop both their
research skills
and their
career prospects
.
As the programme structure is
tailored to active professionals
, you can apply your findings directly to the
needs of your organisation
, driving progress without sacrificing your studies or your work.
The DBA is a
partnership
with LJMU, Liverpool John Moores University, UK, which also awards the DBA degree. The workshops take place
in both Liverpool and Berlin
.
The rest of the time, you will be
mentored virtually
and apply your insights to
your company or an organisation of your choice
. Thanks to the part-time approach, we offer you the opportunity to achieve the
highest academic qualification
while working full-time. The programme has been running
very successfully at LJMU for ten years
and will be available soon to SRH University students.
Upon completion of the Doctorate in Business Administration, you'll have a specialised repertoire of problem-solving and decision-making strategies that will take you to the next level of your career and will help your organisation save money and implement new innovative strategies through your research.
By working closely with other senior professionals, you'll also expand your network with valuable contacts around the world.
Companies benefit from the support of DBA candidates by developing and retaining talent and using knowledge as a competitive advantage.
The advantages of the Doctorate of Business Administration at a glance:
A DBA...
enables you to acquire a part-time doctorate
enhances your professional and academic qualification
strengthens the competitiveness and financial security of one's own company
provides a solid foundation for further professional development or an important career step
offers a large international network of managers and senior professionals
Your path to the future
Start your application now
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
FAQs
What is a DBA?
A Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) is the highest academic management degree.
Is the DBA equivalent to a PhD in Germany and am I allowed to use the title "Dr." in Germany?
Yes, the DBA is recognised as an equivalent degree programme. A DBA differs from other doctoral degrees as it focuses on the application of research in a real business environment, which is also a prerequisite for successful completion.
Under the current regulations, the abbreviated form "Dr." may be used (without a subject-related addition and without a designation of origin).
How is the DBA programme structured?
The DBA programme is unique in its design and structure as well as the intensive supervision of students. It lasts approximately four years, with a maximum duration of seven years.
In the first three years, a total of four 5-day workshops are held in Liverpool and Berlin. Here, the research process is planned and the topics and methods to be implemented in the company are specified. In addition, students learn more about data collection and analysis, academic writing and take part in the colloquium.
After the third year, there are no more workshops and students focus on completing their dissertation and prepare for the exam. Typically, students receive their DBA degree within four years.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 216
Contact me
Tuition Fees
Year 1 - 3 | Citizenship "International" (all countries excl. UK): £13,755 / year (part-time)
Write-Up Fees
Year 4 - 7 | £4,600
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Doctor of Business Administration
, you will need to provide
Master's degree in Business/Management
Min. 2 years of managerial experience or min. 5 year of other relevant work experience
Letter of motivation incl. research plans
One academic and one industry reference
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: