Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/electrical-engineering/e/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Engineering | Heidelberg
for the winter semester 2023/2024.
As an electrical engineer, you will be involved in the development of innovative products: hardware and software development, technical project management and technical sales.
Request information
Apply now
for the winter semester 2023/2024.
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
without NC,
										
											accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
from €690 per month
1st intake
Coming in 2025
Electrical engineers play a vital role in the current technological transformation of mobility and energy technology. After graduating with a B.Eng. in Electrical Engineering from SRH University of Applied Sciences Heidelberg, you will have the skills to successfully plan, develop and maintain complex systems. You will also have the opportunity to specialise in areas of high social relevance: electromobility, energy technology and mobile robotics.
In addition to the necessary specialised knowledge, we will prepare you for your career entry in a targeted manner right from the start: In many exercises and interdisciplinary projects, you will solve practical problems independently and as part of a team. These tasks will prepare you for the challenges of the future. Gaining expertise in electromobility, energy technology, and mobile robotics will qualify you for engineering positions in technical industries and public institutions.
Fit for progress: As an electrical engineer, you are an innovator in the modern information society. Electrical engineers are specifically sought and hired in all industries for innovative tasks. As an electrical engineer, you will usually work on one large or several small subprojects. You will often be involved in the entire process, from planning and development to the design and manufacture of new devices, equipment, and systems in electronics and electrical engineering.
Your possible areas of responsibility
Research and development
Planning and project planning
Testing and quality assurance (test centres, e.g. TÜV)
Technical sales (sale of technical products)
In the coming years, electromobility will become another significant field of activity in which you, as an electrical engineer, will be in demand for project planning, development and realisation. Because we continuously adapt the course content to current developments, studying with us will give you excellent opportunities in this future-oriented labour market.
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
The Bachelor's programme in Electrical Engineering provides comprehensive theoretical and practical knowledge in various areas of electrical engineering and related disciplines. The programme begins with the fundamentals of mathematics and natural sciences, essential for understanding technical concepts. Students learn the fundamental principles of electrical engineering and the basics of computer science before deepening their knowledge in areas such as sensor/actuator technology and applying it in an engineering design project.
Business aspects are also part of the curriculum to promote a holistic understanding of technical decisions in a business context. Students gain practical experience through an internship in companies or research institutions. Other modules include Software Engineering, Embedded Systems and Systems Theory, and Control Engineering, which deal with the development of complex systems and their control.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Request information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Lecturer for Special Tasks
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA (incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine): €690 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA:
€4,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the already paid-for study period. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations, so you have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Electrical Engineering
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: