Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-management-entrepreneurship-and-intrapreneurship/b/

Master
International Management
Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship
Master of Arts | Berlin
Turn your idea into a success story - as a founder or as an innovation in a company! Thanks to our skill- and project-based approach and the incubator semester you are prepared to develop new products, services or business models.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
Award
The M.A. International Management - Entre- & Intrapreneurship has the FIBAA Premium Seal
The Entrepreneurship & Intrapreneurship programme assists you in developing your entrepreneurial and soft skills, strengthens your business expertise and helps you to design, develop and launch your own business or foster innovation in existing businesses.
Throughout your studies, you will focus your attention on your business idea/start-up. In the Incubator Semester you will further develop your idea and build and expand your product, service and business model or your own company. You will be supported by coaches, take part in workshops and receive feedback from other founders and experts.
With your Master's degree you can launch your own business or work in the innovation department of different companies. In addition to gaining entrepreneurial independence, the project- and skill-based programme enables you to work in innovation management and to lead demanding projects in the start-up scene.
Choose from the following career paths:
Director of your own Company
Business Development Manager in Start-ups
Successor Sanager in SMEs
Business Analyst in Venture Capital Firms
Positions in Innovation Management, Regional and Business Development
Business or Start-up Consultant
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In your Master's programme in International Management - Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship, you will acquire in-depth knowledge of international contract and risk management as well as negotiation and conflict management. You will also strengthen your entrepreneurial skills through modules such as Entrepreneurial Skills and Business Analysis & Planning and have the opportunity to set up your own company. Later in the programme, the focus is on HR management and leadership in international teams. An internship offers valuable insights into the professional world before writing your Master's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
FIBAA PREMIUM SEAL
Our International Management - Focus on Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship Master's programme has the
FIBAA Premium Seal
. With this seal, the European accreditation agency FIBAA, confirms SRH Berlin's
outstanding quality
in various assessment categories such as
international focus, employability, promotion of job-relevant skills, interdisciplinarity and collaboration
.
The FIBAA Premium Seal was established by FIBAA in order to identify and acknowledge study programmes with outstanding quality in all five core areas (goals and strategies, admissions, implementation, academic setting and general conditions, quality assurance). The evaluation certifies that these programmes considerably surpass all of the quality requirements outlined by FIBAA.
The distinction of a FIBAA Premium Seal gives students, prospective students, graduates, universities, and the job market a reliable indication of the exceptional quality of the study programme.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Teaching Quality Officer
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in International Management - Entrepreneurship and Intrapreneurship
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: