Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/mba/executive-mba-general-management/b/

MBA & DBA
Executive Master of Business Administration | Berlin
Get prepared for your next career step. Strengthen your management expertise and learn how to use your soft skills in times of digital transformation to lead diverse and international teams with the Executive MBA in General Management.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
60
Info:
accredited
Duration:
2 semesters/1 year
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €1260 per month
Work Experience
Minimum 2 years of professional managerial experience
Learn how to react to current developments in the working environment in an agile, future-oriented and innovative way in order to make sustainable and successful management decisions. Thanks to the skill and project-based academic approach, you will strengthen your analytical, leadership and communication skills and deepen your knowledge of current management concepts, methods and techniques. Thus, you will be able to plan, lead and implement challenging projects and will be prepared for challenging management tasks.
The study programme is aimed at professionals with leadership experience who work in mid-level and senior management positions as well as managers who want to prepare themselves for new career opportunities.
As a graduate of the Executive MBA programme you will have received a hands-on, sound management education that strengthens important soft skills and helps you expand your professional network.
You will be able to choose from the following roles and more:
CEO, CFO, General Manager
Head of Department, Country Division Head, Finance Director, Marketing Director, HR Director
Founder/Managing Director
Consultant, Project Manager
Head of Strategic Development, Head of Business Development
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Executive MBA General Management programme, you will acquire comprehensive management and leadership skills to prepare you for demanding management tasks. You will learn about economic theories and tools that you can apply directly to complex management challenges. The focus is on topics such as strategy, finance, digitalisation and human behaviour in companies. Through interactive seminars and real-life case studies, you will sharpen your strategic thinking and decision-making skills. Practical projects and an intercultural approach will also develop your team and leadership skills.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 216
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €1,260 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €7,875 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
MBA programme Executive MBA General Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree with a minimum duration of 3.5 years (210 ECTS)
Min. 2 years of professional managerial experience
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: