Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/film-motion-design/v/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin
Telling stories and creating cinematic designs. Producing spots, short films and animations. Studying B.A. Film & Motion Design in Berlin will teach you directing, revising and post-production, and how to transport your creative ideas to the big screen.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
Portfolio
3-5 works from the cinematic field: script, scenic sketches, storyboard, Youtube/Vimeo links
Our B.A. Film & Motion programme is your ticket to the movie industry. Learn how to write scripts and produce films, from the initial idea all the way to the final screening. You will perfect your camera and editing skills, storytelling, directing, post-production and digital techniques as well as 2D and 3D visualisation.
In addition to film theory, dramaturgy, lighting and sound technology, your curriculum will include innovative narrative approaches as well as interactive campaigns, short films, music clips and commercials for the big screen.
Motion design is the most innovative field in the movie industry. Combined with traditional film formats, it makes for a unique study programme that teaches professional skills in directing, camera techniques, editing and post-production.
The B.A. Film & Motion Design focuses on film and cinematic jobs for the communication industry. Our university provides you with the latest hardware and software for all your projects. Professional recording studios, a film and motion studio, the latest camera technology, editing and post-production workstations, lighting and sound equipment all help you realise your cinematic ideas.
As an expert in audiovisual design, you are a sought-after expert in film production companies, in advertising agencies, communication agencies and TV stations.
Possible careers include:
Motion designer
Director
Creative producer
Cinematographer
Editor
TV designer
In addition, the internationally recognised Bachelor of Arts degree gives you access to numerous postgraduate and Master's programmes, both in Germany and abroad.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In your Bachelor's programme Film & Motion Design, you will learn all the tools you need to conceptualise and produce films - from the initial idea to the final screening. You will gain foundational knowledge about film theory and dramaturgy, and you will also acquire practical skills such as correctly using camera and sound technology and editing techniques.
It is important to us that you apply your skills in numerous practical projects. You will continuously expand your skills with your fellow students by designing and producing short films, music videos, cinema commercials and interactive campaigns.
We're happy to send you further information, including the complete and detailed curriculum.
Order your information material
Interview with programme director Prof. Gilbert Beronneau about participating in and winning the 2022 Pro Carton Student Video Award.
previous slide
next slide
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 209
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for film & screenwriting
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for film and sound
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
External lecturer for visual storytelling & concept art
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Film & Motion Design
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Portfolio with about 3 - 5 works from the cinematic field (e.g. script, scenic sketches, storyboard or links to finished works on Vimeo or YouTube) -
please refer to the guidelines
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
Convince us with your talent: we are looking forward to assessing your portfolio with about 3 - 5 of your own creative works. Please upload the portfolio with your online application.
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: