Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/film-television-digital-narratives/v/

Master
Master of Arts | Berlin
Writing series, producing feature films, designing TV formats, editing films - the world of film and television is large and growing dynamically. With the M.A. Film, Television & Digital Narratives programme, you'll secure your place in the industry.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited,
										
											without NC
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
Portfolio
5-8 works (films max. 20min., screenplay/screenplay exposé/film analysis) & 5 favourite films/series
In the Film, Television and Digital Narratives Master's programme, you will focus on
screenwriting, directing and producing
.
In two years, you will learn to write, direct and produce a variety of formats including short films, television series and feature films, documentaries and commercials. You will analyse and discuss the history and theory of film and television and you will write, direct and produce audiovisual formats in an international environment.
After completing the M.A. Film, Television and Digital Narratives, you will be able to write, produce, direct or post-produce film productions - for a wide range of target groups, in collaboration with all the actors involved, locally and internationally.
As a graduate, doors will open up for you in the film and television industry, where you can work as a:
Producer
Director
Screenwriter and editor
Project manager
Curator for film and television companies, television stations and institutions
This state-recognised Master's degree also prepares students for doctoral or PhD studies, which opens the way to an academic career in teaching and research.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
On the
Master’s degree programme in Film, Television & Digital Narratives
at SRH University Berlin, you will fully immerse yourself in the realm of audiovisual storytelling. During the first semester, you will explore film history, screenwriting, and directing, alongside an examination of the role of social media in contemporary narratives.
The second semester will enhance your understanding of budgeting and provide you with an internship opportunity, allowing you to gain invaluable insights into the industry. In the third semester, the emphasis will shift towards target audiences, marketing strategies, and the preparation of your Master’s project.
Finally, in the fourth semester, you will bring your Master’s project to fruition and compose your Master’s thesis, setting the stage for your entry into the film and media industry.
Cultivate your creative ideas in an inspiring environment! For further details, please refer to our brochure.
Order information material
previous slide
next slide
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
In the video, Zara talks about her career, her experiences, her passion for film and her "Film, Television and Digital Narratives" studies at SRH Berlin.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Professor
Study Advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 209
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €790 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €5,700 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's degree programme in Film, Television and Digital Narratives
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
5 - 8 film works
(films max. 20min., screenplay or an exposé for a screenplay or a film analysis) -
Please follow the guidelines
Unannotated
list of 5 favourite films and series
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the
SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you