Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/mba/general-management/b/

MBA & DBA
Master of Business Administration | Berlin
Broaden your management horizons! Our General Management MBA gives you extensive knowledge on how to develop sustainable strategies for a globalised economy. Our project-focused approach also helps you strengthen your soft and leadership skills.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
90
Info:
Duration:
3 semesters/1.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €1155 per month
During the programme you receive a solid education in classic management disciplines such as finance, human resources and marketing and deal with current topics such as corporate social responsibility, organisational behaviour and business ethics. In addition, you get to set a focus in elective modules so you can tailor your studies to your career goals.
You will gain extensive management knowledge and develop sustainable strategies to meet the requirements of the global economy and complex markets. You will know how to take social responsibility and will be able to strengthen your leadership, intercultural and negotiation skills in integrated projects.
Thanks to our project and skill-based concept, you will have trained your communication, negotiation and teamwork skills – skills that are indispensable in today's business world. Thus, upon graduation, you will be qualified for the next step in your career.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management positions in international companies
Leading positions in start-ups, SMEs, NGOs and associations
And many more...
Your path to the future
Start your application now
The General Management MBA provides you with a solid management education that prepares you for international management positions.
In the first semester, you will learn the basics of management and economics, human resources management and finance, and you will study business ethics and corporate social responsibility. A practical project or internship rounds off the semester.
In the 2nd semester, you will deepen your knowledge of marketing, strategic management and process management. You will also strengthen your team and leadership skills.
In the 3rd semester, you will choose two specialisations before completing your Master's thesis and preparing for your career path.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the full curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 216
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €1155 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €7560 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the MBA programme in
General Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Min. 2 years of relevant work experience
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: