Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/global-business-and-leadership/

Master
Master of Arts | Heidelberg
Are you looking to pursue a career in management, but acquired little or no knowledge of business on your (Bachelor’s) degree? Our Global Business Leadership Master's degree will prepare and qualify you for a career in management.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
Duration:
4 semesters
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
770 € per month
The Master’s programme in Global Business and Leadership will enable you to gain the key transferable skills required in the labour market, allowing you to act independently and successfully: from the theoretical foundations of international management, leadership, strategic management and social research (market research) to leading intercultural teams. Last but not least, you will have the opportunity to apply all the skills gained during our teaching/learning events and in exchange with our practice partners. You will learn the foundations of strategic management, get an in-depth understanding about leadership (including psychological aspects) and social research (market research), and apply this theory to practical problems.
With a clear focus on leadership and management functions in companies, and against the backdrop of increasing labour mobility, completing this programme is the perfect way to start your career in a globalised world. Launch your career in Germany, Europe or on another continent: your management skills and the experience gained with your fellow students from all over the world will put you one step ahead of other applicants. If you are keen to implement your business model after graduation, our Founder Institute will support you.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your way into the future
Apply here
In the Master's programme "Global Business and Leadership" at SRH University at the Heidelberg campus, you will learn essential skills to be successful in an international business environment. Contents typically include:
Global management and leadership
: you will be trained to understand global markets and develop leadership skills for international teams.
Intercultural competence
: There is a strong emphasis on recognising cultural differences and improving intercultural communication.
Strategic Management
: You will learn how to develop and implement international business strategies.
Financial management
: A deep insight into international financial markets and the management of global financial flows.
Innovation and change management
: How companies implement innovations and adapt to changing market conditions.
Project management
: Dealing with complex, international projects in depth.
Sustainability and ethical management
: You will deal with sustainable business models and ethical issues in a global business context.
The programme combines theoretical knowledge with practical case studies, projects and an international perspective.
We will be happy to send you further information. You will also find the full curriculum there.
Order your information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Dual Degree Programme
Two degrees mean more career opportunities, a potentially higher starting salary and additional skills that are in high demand on the market. In a dual degree programme, you study at SRH University and at a partner university abroad. Graduates of the dual degree programme receive two academic degrees - one degree per country.
Read more
What I like most is being able to work with people from different careers and nationalities. The courses are challenging, interactive and related to recent topics. The staff is always ready to help us and tries to create an enjoyable environment.
Maria Camila Celeita Riaño, Master Global Business and Leadership student
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-125
Professor
Dekan
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-105
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
770 € / month
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1,000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
650 € / month
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire duration of your studies. The one-off enrolment fee is EUR 750.00.
If you come from a non-EEA country without a residence permit, the enrolment fee is €1,000 - you must pay the tuition fees for one semester in advance. From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the study period already paid for. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master's programme in
Global Business and Leadership
, you need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you