Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/global-hospitality-management/x/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Dresden
Would you like to study Hotel Management in English? At our SRH University in Dresden, we offer you a Bachelor's degree in Global Hospitality Management, a business programme with a focus on the hotel industry, entirely in English.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
Summer and winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semester
Location:
Dresden
Costs:
620 € per month
									
										-
Show costs split
As the only bachelor’s degree programme in Germany taught entirely in English, the B.A. in Global Hospitality Management at our Dresden campus equips you for leadership roles in the international hotel industry. You will acquire the skills to strategically and sustainably manage a hotel, motivate and lead staff, develop marketing and event concepts, and create financial and business plans. The programme also covers entrepreneurship and start-up idea development, as well as key topics such as digitalisation, sustainability, and modern technologies shaping the future of the hotel industry. Additionally, you will enhance your language abilities, preparing you for a successful career both nationally and internationally.
Your studies are highly practice-oriented. Alongside your classmates from across the globe, you will participate in numerous projects, often in collaboration with renowned hotel chains or students from our prestigious partner universities, including Institut LYFE (Lyon), University College Prague, University of Nicosia, Technological University Dublin, and ERASMUS Hogeschool Brussels. Guest lectures from international industry experts, excursions, and practical internships will further deepen your understanding of hotel operations.
You enjoy speaking multiple languages
You love the hotel industry and are a passionate host
You want to establish yourself in the diverse hotel industry with its numerous job opportunities
Your focus is on meeting customer and guest needs
You have endurance and perseverance
Teamwork is one of your strengths
Here’ s what your study plan looks like:
7 semesters, divided into theme-centered modules
2 internships totaling 10 months
A 6-month international practical semester
4 integrated foreign language modules: You will take at least 2 foreign languages and can attend additional language courses of your choice for free. In addition to Business English, you can choose from Spanish, French, Chinese, Arabic, Italian, and Russian.
As a graduate of the English-taught B.A. Global Hospitality Management program, you can work for hotel companies worldwide. Your opportunities are incredibly diverse: you can apply your skills in marketing, human resources, controlling, revenue management, or other responsible positions. Globally, the hotel industry is one of the largest employers. Due to the shortage of skilled workers, qualified professionals are in high demand in this sector. If you aim to enter or advance in this field, you are choosing an industry with a bright future.
You can kickstart your career in the following areas:
Management & Administration
, e.g., Management, Human Resources, Accounting, Controlling
Sales & Marketing
, e.g., Revenue Management, Public Relations, Convention Sales
Rooms Division
, e.g., Reception, Guest Relations/Guest Services, Executive Floor, Housekeeping
Food & Beverage
, e.g., F&B Administration, Banquet Service, Bar Management, Room Service
Head Office
, e.g., Hotel Development, Quality Management, etc.
Hospitality Consulting
, e.g., Project Development, Operational Consulting, etc.
Hospitality Tech
, e.g., Booking Platforms, Search Engines, Digital Hospitality Services, etc.
With an internationally recognized bachelor’s degree, you also qualify for further studies at the master’s level, laying the foundation for an advanced academic career in Business Administration or Hospitality Management. This will open doors to higher leadership positions in the hotel industry, including General Manager roles, or even to opportunities in teaching and research.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Start your application now
During your Bachelor's degree programme in Global Hospitality Management at SRH University, you will gain both foundational business skills and in-depth knowledge of the hotel industry. You will focus on future hotel concepts and operations, identify emerging trends, and develop innovative business models. The curriculum also covers hospitality technologies, sustainability, modern human resource management, and digitalisation.
Your language skills will be enhanced through integrated foreign language modules, with the option to take additional language courses of your choice.
Valuable practical experience is gained through internships, including an international internship semester, before you embark on your final Master's thesis.
We would be happy to send you further information. The full curriculum is also available there.
Order information material
Hotel business at the highest level
Students at SRH University in Dresden have the opportunity to complete an internship at a Swiss hotel. As one of only two German universities, we are part of the
HotellerieSuisse
network, the association representing the Swiss accommodation industry, which is a prerequisite for this opportunity.
Your internship abroad
Dream of studying while exploring new places? During your semester abroad, you’ll gain international work experience, immerse in new cultures, and improve your language skills.
1001 possibilities
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 351 407617 52
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
for EU/EEA students (incl. Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine): €620 per month
for non-EU/non-EEA students: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1,000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Bachelor's degree programme in
Global Hospitality Management
, you need:
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now!
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you