Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/computer-science-healthcare-management/i/

Bachelor
Computer Science
Healthcare Management
Bachelor of Science | Berlin
Become an IT professional with know-how in healthcare! In our Healthcare Bachelor degree you'll develop IT & AI solutions and learn management basics. Join us now and start your career in an exciting and growing industry.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
												
											
										
											-
more details
Language:
English
ECTS:
210 (International Experience Track); 180 (Fast Track)
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters (International Experience Track); 6 semester (Fast Track)
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
The digital transformation of the global healthcare industry is advancing at a fast pace which creates a high demand for experts with both IT and healthcare-related knowledge and specialised skills.
Our Computer Science programme aims to create this new generation of experts by combining a thorough computer science education with modules on healthcare and artificial intelligence.
You gain an understanding of the crucial methods, principles and techniques of the most important programming paradigms and the associated markup and programming languages. You learn how to implement and evaluate different application systems, cloud technologies, cyber security measures and software solutions.
Thanks to the health focus you become acquainted with neural networks, image processing and further applications of AI in healthcare technology and management. You deepen your knowledge of IT systems and digitalisation measures in hospitals and learn about the importance of patents, liability, process management and entrepreneurship in the healthcare sector. Modules on risk and quality management, epidemiology, supply chain management and public health complement the curriculum and your computer science education.
The project- and skill-based approach of the Bachelor's degree in Healthcare Management helps you train your soft, hard and personal skills and prepares you for demanding positions within the healthcare and other industries.
Due to the shortage of skilled professionals in industries, such as the software, telecommunications, manufacturing or medical device industry, graduates can benefit from a wide range of career opportunities. Typical fields of activity can be, for example:
System/software developer
Application/software developer
System/application administrator
Software and hardware sales specialist
Interface specialist
IT security specialist
IT quality manager
Web designer
IT consultant
IT service manager
IT project manager
The Bachelor of Science degree helps students get positions in small- and medium-sized enterprises, public authorities, international corporations, or administrative departments of different businesses in the healthcare and other sectors. The degree also enables you to do a Master’s degree in Germany and abroad.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
The Bachelor's programme B.Sc. Computer Science - Healthcare Management at SRH University combines a sound computer science education with special modules in healthcare. The curriculum comprises seven semesters and includes courses on programming, data structures, artificial intelligence and cloud computing, and healthcare-specific topics such as eHealth, telemedicine, hospital management and epidemiology.
In the first semesters, you will learn about fundamental topics such as mathematics, programming, and healthcare management. As you progress, you will explore areas such as AI in healthcare, advanced data exploration and the management of healthcare systems. The emphasis is on practical applications, with internships focusing on AI, cloud systems and autonomous systems. The programme also includes internships and project work in the final semesters to give you hands-on experience.
The programme prepares you for various career paths, such as software development, IT project management and IT consulting in healthcare. In addition, the programme offers both an international experience and a fast-track option, with tuition fees varying depending on your nationality and chosen degree programme.
Request our detailed information material to learn more about the curriculum and your career options after graduation!
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 222
Contact me
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €690 / month
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €790 / month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship
International Experience Track (7 semesters) | €4,800 / semester
Fast Track (6 semesters) | €5,500 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Computer Science - Healthcare Management
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
You still have questions?
Share: