Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-business-healthcare-management/b/

Master
International Business
Healthcare Management
Master of Arts | Dresden
Our English-taught Master's programme in International Business - Healthcare Management equips you with the knowledge and skills needed for leadership roles in the global healthcare industry.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
Summer and winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120 ECTS
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 Semester
Location:
Dresden
Costs:
from €690 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
Are you aspiring to take on leadership roles in international healthcare organisations? Then our English-taught
Master’s in Healthcare Management at SRH University Campus Dresden
is the perfect fit for you. Become a young professional equipped with industry expertise, intercultural skills, a global mindset, management capabilities, and leadership qualities. Through our innovative study concept, we collaborate with you to develop essential career skills and deepen your knowledge in cutting-edge personnel and business management within the healthcare sector.
Thanks to our competency- and project-based learning approach, you will develop leadership, intercultural, and analytical skills during your studies. This prepares you for challenging management roles in global healthcare and supports you in taking the next step in your career.
With your degree, you’ll have access to various career pathways, including:
Leadership roles in healthcare
Management positions in pharmaceuticals, medical technology, hospitals, and care facilities
Sales and Key Account Manager roles
Quality and Process Manager roles
Positions in medical controlling, e-health, and public health
…and much more.
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the Master's degree programme in International Business Healthcare Management, students acquire comprehensive knowledge of business and management-related topics that are specifically geared towards the healthcare industry.
In the first semester, basic modules such as marketing management, globalisation, accounting and strategic management are covered. In the second semester, the focus is more on specialised topics such as global financial management, management of healthcare facilities and public health management.
The third semester offers the opportunity to apply theoretical knowledge in an internship or a global study semester. In the fourth semester, students complete the programme with a Master's thesis and colloquium to demonstrate their research skills.
The degree programme teaches practical skills and prepares students for management positions in international healthcare management.
We will be happy to send you further information material. You will also find the complete curriculum there.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 351 407617 55
Contact me
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 216
Contact me
Professor
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA students:
120 ECTS (4 semesters): € 690 per month
Non-EU/EEA students:
120 ECTS: €5,500 per semester
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire period of study and an additional registration fee is charged (€750 for EU/EEA students, €1,000 for non-EU/non-EEA students).With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations.This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
650 € / month
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire duration of your studies. The one-off enrolment fee is EUR 750.00.
If you come from a non-EEA country without a residence permit, the enrolment fee is €1,000 - you must pay the tuition fees for one semester in advance. From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the study period already paid for. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
with no obligation. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master's degree programme in International Business - Healthcare Management, you need:
Requirements Variant with 120 ECTS / 2 years duration:
University degree, e.g. bachelor's or diploma
with at least 180 ECTS in the field of business
or
health (if you do not yet have the degree certificate, you can submit it before the start of the programme) OR
with at least 180 ECTS in another field + at least 6 months of relevant professional experience in the field of business/management/health
Requirements Variant with 60 ECTS / 1 year duration:
University degree, e.g. Bachelor or Diploma
with 240 ECTS in the field of business
or
health (if you do not yet have the degree certificate, you can submit it before the start of the programme) OR
with 240 ECTS in another field + at least 6 months of relevant professional experience in the field of business/management/health
We also require the following for both options
Letter of motivation
Proof of English language skills
Certificate of general or advanced technical college entrance qualification
Curriculum vitae
Copy of identity card
Admission requirements in detail
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You apply online via the SRH application portal
If you fulfil the admission requirements, we will invite you to a selection interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and a study contract from us
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
We will send you your letter of admission
You take part in our induction week and then you're ready to go!
Apply now!
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you