Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/mba/healthcare-management/b/

MBA & DBA
Master of Business Administration | Berlin, Stuttgart
| Meet our study advisor Mathew Schlehuber online - Fridays from 2 - 4 pm CEST
Help shape the future of healthcare! Our MBA in Healthcare Management prepares you for challenging global tasks in this field of management. Strengthen your soft skills and expertise and get qualified for leadership positions.
Request information
Apply now
| Meet our study advisor Mathew Schlehuber online - Fridays from 2 - 4 pm CEST
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
90
Info:
accredited
Duration:
3 semesters/1.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €1155 per month
*New study location:
From 2025 at the SRH Campus Stuttgart (in Accreditation)
You acquire comprehensive management know-how and a sustainable and well-rounded understanding of the challenges of today's healthcare system. In addition to classic management topics, such as economics, marketing or accounting, you will gain industry-specific expertise in areas such as quality management, hospital and public healthcare management.
Thanks to the elective modules and the project-centred approach, you can broaden your professional horizons while strengthening your teamwork, communication and intercultural skills.
Thanks to our skill and project-oriented concept, you develop your leadership, intercultural and analytical skills. This way you are prepared for challenging positions in healthcare management and your next career step.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management positions in the Healthcare Sector
Leading positions in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Industry as well as Hospitals and Healthcare Facilities
Sales and Key Account Manager
Quality Manager
Positions in Medical Controlling and E-Health Providers
And many more...
Your path to the future
Start your application now
The Healthcare Management MBA provides you with a solid management education and a sustainable and holistic understanding of the challenges facing the healthcare sector today.
In the 1st semester, you will learn the basics of management and economics, personnel management and finance, and you will study business ethics, corporate social responsibility and the management of healthcare organisations. A practical project or internship rounds off the semester.
In the 2nd semester, you will deepen your knowledge of marketing, strategic management and process management. You will also expand your skills in public healthcare management and knowledge of financial flows in the healthcare sector.
In the 3rd semester, you will choose two specialisations before completing your Master's thesis and preparing for your career path.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the full curriculum.
Order information material
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 216
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €1155 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €7560 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the MBA programme in
Healthcare Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Min. 2 years of relevant work experience
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: