Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration-healthcare-management/b/

Bachelor
International Business Administration
Healthcare Management
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin
Do you want to become a manager with both business and healthcare expertise? Join our hands-on Healthcare Management Bachelor's degree in Berlin. Train your soft skills in projects and develop business strategies with students from around the globe.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 or 210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
6 or 7 semesters/3 or 3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
In today’s healthcare industry more and more people are working in intercultural and interdisciplinary teams which creates a demand for highly skilled professionals that have good team-working and communication skills as well as a broad range of knowledge.
Our new international business administration programme with a focus on healthcare provides you with a well-rounded management education and specific knowledge about the healthcare industry as well as current topics, such as digital distribution channels, medical tourism, health start-ups or artificial intelligence software in healthcare.
You learn about innovation management, digital business models and quality management. You know how to lead intercultural teams, how to start a company and how to assess the viability of different business projects. You gain an understanding of accounting, supply chain management, marketing, economics, and finance. In addition, you expand your knowledge of health-related topics such as patent law, pricing, research and development and how the various players in the healthcare industry interact with each other.
Thanks to the many projects with students from other countries and disciplines, you get to strengthen your communication, team-working and problem-solving skills. Your internship and language courses complement your curriculum and help you train your intercultural and personal competences.
You also get to choose between:
7 semester-/3.5-year option (International Experience Track)
6 semester-/3-year option (Fast Track)
As a graduate of the B.A. International Business Administration - Focus on Healthcare Management, you benefit from a general and international business education that allows you to work in a range of industries.
Thanks to the healthcare focus, you are also prepared for a career entry in national and international companies, start-ups, MedTech and eHealth businesses as well as in public and private healthcare institutions.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management and administrative positions
Innovation management
Consulting
Project Management
Account Management
And many more...
Your Bachelor of Arts degree also qualifies you to do a Master's in Germany or abroad.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the International Business Administration - Healthcare Management study programme, you will receive a
comprehensive business education
tailored to the unique challenges of the healthcare sector
. You will engage with critical topics such as accounting, marketing, economics, and finance while expanding your expertise in innovation management, digital business models, and quality management. Through practical projects, you will develop the skills to lead intercultural teams, execute business initiatives, and successfully manage organisations within the healthcare industry.
The Healthcare Management specialisation offers more profound insights into current issues such as medical tourism, digital distribution channels, and the use of AI in healthcare. You will gain a clear understanding of the relationships between research, development, pricing, and patent law, as well as how various stakeholders in the healthcare system collaborate. Language courses, international projects, and an internship will round off your training, preparing you for a
career in the global healthcare industry
.
Contact us to receive more information about the curriculum and explore your career opportunities after graduation!
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Research Associate
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Citizenship | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine)
International Experience Track
(7 semesters) | €690 per month
Fast Track
(6 semesters) | €790 per month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
International Experience Track
(7 semesters) | €4,725 per semester
Fast Track
(6 semesters) | €5,355 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in International Business Administration - Healthcare Management
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: