Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/hospitality-management-and-leadership/x/

Master
Master of Arts l Dresden
Are you aiming for a leadership position in the international hotel industry? Our English-taught Master's program in Hospitality Management & Leadership in Dresden will prepare you perfectly for it.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
Summer and winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semester
Location:
Dresden
Costs:
690 € per month
									
										-
Show costs split
Your advantage:
Optional stay abroad
In our English-taught Master's program in Hospitality Management & Leadership, you will gain detailed insights into the tourism sector as well as the hotel and gastronomy industries. Additionally, you will deepen your knowledge of business administration. On the one hand, you will enhance your leadership skills, and on the other, you will acquire industry-specific knowledge in key business functions such as finance or human resources. An internship or a semester abroad will open the door to international leadership positions in the hospitality industry.
As a graduate of the Master’s program in Hospitality Management & Leadership, you will work in complex fields within senior international management. With your leadership abilities, other key relevant competencies, and expertise in human resources within a multicultural context, you will be well-prepared to meet the demands of the global economy.
Alternatively, with the "Master of Arts" degree, you will have excellent qualifications for an academic career in teaching and research.
With your Master’s degree, you can work in the following selected career fields:
Food & Beverage Management
Hotel Projects, Development & Facility Management
Consulting
Hotel/Restaurant Management
National and international hospitality
Hotel chain headquarters
City and destination marketing
Health and wellness facilities
Tourism organizations, associations, and politics
Start your application now
Click here for the applicant portal
Your modules
In the Master's programme in Hospitality Management and Leadership at SRH University, you will be thoroughly prepared for a successful career in the hotel industry. You will gain expertise in areas such as strategic management, marketing, and global business, learning how to design and implement corporate strategies.
As your studies progress, the focus will shift to leadership skills, property and asset management, as well as innovative concepts within the hotel sector. You will be equipped to take on management responsibilities and devise creative solutions to industry challenges.
A standout feature of the programme is the chance to gain valuable practical experience through an internship or a semester abroad. Your studies will culminate in a Master's thesis, allowing you to apply and strengthen the knowledge gained by conducting your own research project.
We are happy to provide you with more detailed information, including the full curriculum.
Order information material
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Our teaching principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Hotel business at the highest level
SRH University students also have the opportunity to undertake an internship at a Swiss hotel. As one of only two German universities, we are a partner school of
HotellerieSuisse,
the Swiss accommodation industry association, which is a prerequisite for this opportunity.
Your internship abroad
Dreamed of studying while exploring places you've always wanted to visit? During your semester abroad, you'll experience international work environments, immerse in different cultures, and enhance your language skills.
1001 possibilities
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 351 407617 52
Contact me
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Nationality | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland and Western Balkans)
690 € / month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
5,500 € / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1,000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master's programme in
Hospitality Management and Leadership
, you will need to provide
University degree, e.g. Bachelor's or Diploma
Bachelor's degree in the field of hotel management/hospitality
OR
Bachelor's degree in the field of business + at least 6 months of professional experience in hotel management/hospitality
OR
with at least 180 ECTS in another field + at least 12 months of relevant professional experience in hotel
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
Access requirements in detail
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you