Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/illustration/v/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin
Drawing is your passion; you think in images. Our Berlin-based B.A. Illustration programme will teach you to visualise messages and draft blueprints while developing your personal style. Learn to apply your drawing skills in a professional context.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
Portfolio
20 own creative works
A picture is worth a thousand words. Visuals serve as the central communication medium in our B.A. Illustration programme where you'll learn to tell stories through drawing and to convey messages through imagery. Develop an understanding of the interplay between image and text. Learn methods and techniques of research, conception and visual implementation. Guided by storytelling principles, you'll develop your designs for various illustration projects, including graphic novels and children's books.
The curriculum includes manual printing techniques such as silkscreen, risography, etching, digital applications and software, typography, editorial design, and editorial illustration. Help shape tomorrow's design solutions today by transporting your illustrations to three-dimensional spaces and making them interact with their environment.
Our programme encourages you to work with professional clients on actual assignments. During your studies, you'll visit illustration and animation studios to experience firsthand what working in the creative industries is like.
As an illustrator you can work for all kinds of media companies. Start your own business and offer professional services to cultural and scientific institutions, advertising agencies and publishing houses. In addition, your job profile can include editorial, advisory and coordinating activities.
Illustrate digital and interactive media, print, websites, 3D animations, cartoons, motion pictures, and computer games. Alternatively, you can create special effects and character designs.
You’ll possess the know-how to craft elaborate narratives for literary works and design children's books, non-fiction and graphic novels for publishing houses.
Our internationally-recognised Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree serves as a professional foundation for immediate employment. In addition, the internationally acclaimed Bachelor of Arts degree entitles you to pursue numerous postgraduate and Master's degree programmes in Germany and beyond.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
The Bachelor's degree in Illustration teaches fundamental design and illustration skills. Students learn essential design skills through courses such as design basics, illustration basics, character design and animation. They gain practical experience in the media lab through an internship in Germany or abroad and a freelance illustration project.
Creative specialisations are offered in modules such as Concept Art, Narrative Illustration, and Editorial Design. Research aspects, such as modules on artistic research and the academic colloquium, are also part of the curriculum, while compulsory elective modules and projects with companies round off the programme.
We are happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 209
Contact me
Professor
Professor
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for animation
E-mail:
[email protected]
More info
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Illustration
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Portfolio with around 20 of your own creative works
*
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
*Convince us with your talent: we are looking forward to assessing your portfolio with about 20 of your own creative works. You can upload the portfolio together with your application, send it to us or simply bring it to a personal interview.
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: