Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration/b/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | several locations, new: Munich (in accreditation)
Digitalisation, globalisation, social change – today’s companies are facing many challenges. Strengthen your international profile: study International Business Administration and develop innovative solutions and sustainable management concepts.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1 April; 1 October
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 & 210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
6 or 7 semesters/3 or 3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Leipzig,
									
										Hamburg,
									
										Heidelberg,
									
										Cologne,
									
										Hamm,
									
										München
Costs:
from €620 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
The International Business Administration programme offers you a holistic management education that helps you develop your soft skills. You get to understand economic contexts and know-how, in order to develop innovative and solution-oriented strategies for international companies. As a student, you will embark on a journey with people from different cultures and countries and you will strengthen your international profile.
You can also choose between the following options:
6-semester/3-year option (Fast Track)
7-semester/3.5-year option (International Experience Track – includes internship/semester abroad)
During your management studies you work on projects with other students from around the globe and solve complex issues together. You learn about your own strengths and develop your communication, team working, intercultural and leadership skills - skills that are needed in the job market.
Choose from the following career paths:
Human resource manager
Marketing & sales manager
Project manager
Management consultant
Management positions in banking and finance
And many more…
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Studying International Business Administration will provide you with comprehensive knowledge that will prepare you for a career in the global economy. You will acquire critical practical skills and theoretical knowledge in exciting modules such as Marketing for the Digital Era, Human Resources, Financial Accounting and Strategic Management. You will also study business software, management information systems, and cost and performance accounting, which will help you organise operational processes efficiently.
Practical projects, presentations and case studies are central components of your studies. You will also learn financial mathematics, international legal frameworks and economic fundamentals in micro- and macroeconomics. A semester abroad allows you to gain international experience and strengthen your intercultural skills. You will be well prepared for the challenges of the global business world.
We're happy to send you further information, including the complete and detailed curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Do you already know exactly where you want your career to take you? Then you have the opportunity to choose your specialisation in your Bachelor's degree in International Business Administration at SRH University before you start your studies:
Acquire sought-after skills in technology and management for the automotive industry during your studies. Strive to become a sought-after professional in the fields of technology, logistics and sales.
Learn more
With the Supply Chain Management B.A. you will become an expert in supply chains! You will not only acquire management skills, but also deepen your logistics expertise. Internships and projects also strengthen your soft skills and practical experience.
Learn more
Are you interested in business and health? Do you want to develop your soft skills in projects and develop strategies with students from all over the world? Then our hands-on healthcare business degree programme is the right choice for you.
Learn more
Your ideal combination: business & psychology. You will learn about management principles for international companies and find out what motivates people. You will ensure smart personnel selection and satisfaction at all organisational levels.
Learn more
Learn how to scale international brands and make sound business decisions with our cutting-edge Bachelor's programme in Digital Marketing. Thanks to the integrated projects, you will strengthen your expertise and soft skills.
Learn more
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Teaching Quality Officer
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Interview | Founding during your studies
Which company did you found and how did it come about?
I founded my TikTok marketing agency
klickkraft.de
in 2022, which came about because I set up a
TikTok channel
with over 100,000 subscribers at the beginning of Covid. As many companies contacted me because of my videos, I decided to set up an agency and help them achieve their goals.
How can you use the content from your studies in your work as a founder?
One of the most important qualities that helped me in my start-up phase is social skills. Organizational skills and selling ideas were also important. I was able to refine my skills in modules at SRH. By constantly practicing these skills in presentations and speeches, I was able to perfect them.
What do you like about studying at SRH?
Studying at SRH enabled me to gain experience as an entrepreneur and self-employed person alongside my studies. I was also encouraged and supported by a competent environment, which was reinforced by the small classes. As I was in close contact with the lecturers, I was able to contact them directly if I had any questions.
Alumni-Interview
In this interview, Stephan talks about his current job as Strategy and Operations Associate at the digital bank N26 and his studies at SRH University.
Full interview
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Citizenship | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine)
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €690 per month
Cologne and Hamm: €650 € per month
Hamburg and Leipzig: €620 per month
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €790 per month
Heidelberg: €750 per month
Cologne and Hamm: €680 per month
Hamburg and Leipzig: €650 per month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
Berlin: €4,725 per semester
Hamburg, Hamm, Leipzig and Cologne: €3,900 per semester
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
Berlin: €5,355 per semester
Heidelberg: €5,100 per semester
Hamburg, Hamm, Leipzig and Cologne: €4,500 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in International Business Administration
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Introduction Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
15.02.2025
Get to know our study programmes, professors and the new SRH Campus Munich
Anmeldung/Registration
Share: