Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/short-courses/international-wind-industry-training/e/

Short Courses
Certificate | Berlin
Take part in our wind industry training and improve your career prospects! Deepen your knowledge about wind energy and its use, learn how to develop wind energy projects and network with companies from the industry.
Contact us
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Certificate
Start:
Autumn 2025
Model:
multiple models
Language:
English
Duration:
1 week
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€370
As wind energy has become a mainstream source of energy in Asia, America and Europe, professionals with industry knowledge and experience are a sought-after asset in many businesses.
During the International Wind Industry short course you get to learn about the aerodynamic principles and the different types of wind turbines. You learn how to calculate energy yield and find out about turbine efficiency and blade designs. Apart from technical knowledge, you will learn how to manage and finance new wind energy projects and get first-hand insights thanks to on-site and trade fair visits.
Next training: Autumn 2025 | brochure.
Your course content in detail
Overview of workshops
Session 1: global status of wind energy | benefits of wind energy
Session 2: introduction to wind energy | physics behind the generation of wind and its occurrence | historical development of wind turbines | types of small and large wind turbines
Session 3: wind resources measurement and assessment | atmospheric conditions, complex terrains, wind farm effects | site assessment (site selection, measurement equipment, types of meteorological masts, etc.) | energy yield calculation
Session 4: aerodynamics of wind | the acting forces | basic blade designs and their influence on aerodynamic performance
Session 5: working principles and efficiency of wind turbines | wind energy and wind power | overall turbine efficiency
Session 6: mechanical components | rotor | drive train | support structure
Session 7: electrical system and control concepts | grid-connected and off-grid wind power | types of control strategies
Session 8: planning, building and commissioning | phases of wind energy project development | energy yield assessment | grid-connection of wind turbines | financing and economic calculation
Including
hands-on exercises (demonstration of small wind turbine, handling of multimeters, use of excel sheets and simulation software to calculate energy yield)
excursions
trip to the WindEnergy Hamburg trade fair
cultural programme
training hand-outs and insider tips
university certificate (3 ECTS/credit points)
post-seminar guidance
Sharpen your professional profile and increase your career oppotunities in the wind industry sector.
Take advantage of the networking opportunities during your training and grow your professional and personal network.
Our SRH-accredited trainer Mr. Abdulkarim Abdulrazek of the University of Oldenburg has 10 years of experience in international project and construction management, wind energy consulting and engineering.
He has more than 6 years of experience in wind energy research  and has conducted wind tunnel experiments and worked in several countries, such as Germany, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Mongolia, Indonesia and North Korea.
Furthermore Mr. Karim is specialised in the design and optimisation of testing facilities for small wind turbines (IEC 61400-2 Standard), has constructed wind measurement systems on meteorological masts and knows how to run QM systems.
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for Renewable Energies
E-mail:
[email protected]
On-campus participation
Professionals €370 (incl. tax)
Students €220/€280 (incl. tax)
Online participation
Professionals €222 (incl. tax)
Students €132/€168 (incl. tax)
If you...
have an engineering, business or commercial background or
are a working professional employed in a wind energy company or
are a freelancer in the wind industry
are an Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies student in your final years of study or
a recent Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies graduate
...we invite you to join our International Wind Industry Training.
Please provide the following with your application:
proof of proficient English language skills (at least B2/C1 level)
letter of motivation
curriculum vitae
We are happy to welcome you to SRH University. This is our application process:
Please apply to join our International Wind Industry Training by contacting the course coordinator Mr Matthias Raab | Email:
[email protected]
| Phone:
+49 162 8002010
After submitting your documents to us, we will review them and invite you to an interview if you meet the criteria
You transfer the course fees and apply for your visa (if relevant)
You take part online (online participation) or travel to Berlin to join the training (on-campus participation)
After finishing the training you receive a certificate and stay in contact thanks to our online follow-up activities
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Share: