Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-management/b/

Master
Master of Arts | Berlin + up to 2 other cities outside Germany
Paris, Dublin, Shanghai, New Orleans! With the International Management programme, you can live in Berlin or up to three cities and have the opportunity to get a second Master's degree. Become a management professional with global career prospects.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
Award
The M.A. International Management has the FIBAA Premium Seal
Your advantage
Study in 3 cities worldwide & receive two Master's degrees
Three cities—two degrees—one global perspective: our FIBAA-awarded degree programme is as diverse as your career goals.
You get to solve global economic issues, learn about international and European law and prepare yourself for challenging tasks in international management. Thanks to practical projects, you can develop your soft and leadership skills and—by choosing one of our partner universities around the world—tailor your study programme to your personal and professional interests.
This
FIBAA-awarded
management study programme provides you with a
holistic management education
that fosters your soft skills and allows you to live in
several cities and countries
worldwide.
Our
project- and skill-based approach
turns your International Management degree into the
ideal stepping stone
for your international career.
Your
amplified ability
for analytic and networked thinking will enable you to systematically and methodically delve into
new, unexplored contexts
within countless businesses around the globe.
You will become an asset known for your
reliable leadership
because you learned the skillsets required in corporate leadership, contract-, risk-, innovation-, global management, and
developing projects
and practice.
To make sure you walk the walk, you will receive special training to
develop your soft skills
regarding independence, creativity, interdisciplinary flexibility, and
competencies in communication
, problem-solving, and intercultural sensibility.
Choose from the following career paths:
Positions in Strategic Management
Business Development Manager
Risk and Contract Manager
Market Analyst & Market Researcher
Assistant to the Executive Board
Country or Divisional Manager
Business Consultant
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
In the Master's programme in
International Management
at SRH University's Berlin campus, you can expect hands-on learning content that prepares you for challenging management tasks in an international context.
In the first semester, you will acquire essential knowledge in risk management, project management, and intercultural management and learn how to conduct complex negotiations confidently. Practical case studies will deepen your leadership skills and develop the ability to manage international projects successfully.
The second semester focuses on innovation strategies, company projects and business model development. You will learn how to develop business ideas and manage innovative processes. You will make valuable contacts through practical projects and further develop your international management skills.
The third semester prepares you intensively for strategic management roles. You will deepen your knowledge of international law, HR management and marketing and will be able to lead global teams and manage risks in financial management. Your studies will be rounded off by a company internship and the Master's thesis in the fourth semester, where you will put your acquired knowledge into practice and start your career as an international manager.
During your studies, you also have the
opportunity to study in up to three countries and obtain up to two degrees
. Get to know different cultures, universities and specialisations and choose the best option!
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
FIBAA PREMIUM SEAL
Our International Management Master's programme has the
FIBAA Premium Seal
. With this seal, the European accreditation agency FIBAA, confirms SRH Berlin's
outstanding quality
in various assessment categories such as
international focus, employability, promotion of job-relevant skills, interdisciplinarity and collaboration
.
The FIBAA Premium Seal was established by FIBAA in order to identify and acknowledge study programmes with outstanding quality in all five core areas (goals and strategies, admissions, implementation, academic setting and general conditions, quality assurance). The evaluation certifies that these programmes considerably surpass all of the quality requirements outlined by FIBAA.
The distinction of a FIBAA Premium Seal gives students, prospective students, graduates, universities, and the job market a reliable indication of the exceptional quality of the study programme.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Tripartite options
Do you want to gain international experience and broaden your horizons? In our Master's programme in International Management (M.A.) at SRH Campus Berlin, you can study in up to 3 countries and even get another Master's degree.
Find out more about our tripartite options
Inside SRH University
Judith de Haas studied International Management with us.
Why did you decide to study at SRH University's Berlin campus?
I chose this programme because I have already had a very varied life as a musician, yoga teacher and initiator and have a great hunger for academic challenges. I was therefore looking for a programme that would help me develop the personal skills I need to take on a more responsible role in the cultural sector.
What did you like about your studies?
The International Management programme gave me the foundations I need to orientate myself in the organisation of projects in the performing arts. My degree programme helped me to not just see obstacles, but to simply take it step by step.
How did you experience the international orientation of the SRH?
Actually, just being in my class was a very international experience. Every day again. I think we had about 15-20 different nationalities in my year. It was fantastic to work with so many different people and cultural values, but also to spend time together outside of university. I have always been internationally orientated. Hearing and experiencing different approaches to specialised topics is an important aspect of future international working environments. I also just love getting in touch with people from all over to share experiences on an open level. With its international focus, SRH makes it possible to be a part of this.
What was your favourite learning or work experience at SRH?
My favourite work experience was the learning itself! I am very eager to learn and love working with the event organisers of events that I have run myself. This gives me the inspiration to go my own way.
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in International Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share:
Contact our study advisors
Explore our study programmes
You've got questions? Give us a call.
Get to know us
Apply now