Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-business-and-engineering/e/

Master
Master of Engineering | Heidelberg
at our Hamburg campus from 2025!
Are you interested in the intersection of technology, management, and sustainability? Our International Business and Engineering Master’s programme prepares you for this essential interface role, helping you develop innovative solutions in a globalised work environment.
Request information
Apply now
at our Hamburg campus from 2025!
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april, 1st cctober
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
90-120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
3 semesters/1.5 years
Location:
Hamm,
									
										Hamburg,
									
										Heidelberg,
									
										Cologne
Costs:
€770 per month
We provide you with essential management skills: You will gain the tools needed for strategic decision-making, personnel management, and leadership tasks in companies. We also prepare you in the field of sustainability: You will learn to identify and assess energy, economic, ecological, and social challenges while developing sustainable solutions.
We broaden your horizons: You will explore the legal frameworks of other countries and gain insights into cultural differences. This will help you develop intercultural skills and understand the global economic context.
An example of our coursework in the Master’s in Business and Engineering programme: We collaboratively develop sustainable and innovative product designs. You will learn to:
Identify areas of need and develop innovative ideas.
Define the product specifications.
Check the technical, economic, and ecological feasibility.
Develop and define business models (including the pre-development phase, production, sales, and service).
Be well-prepared for future management roles in an innovative and dynamic work environment. After successfully completing this Master’s programme, you will be equipped to take on leadership roles in both technical and commercial development. Strong language skills and practical experience both domestically and internationally will further enhance your profile. Additionally, you will be able to drive projects forward from a technical, economic, and sustainable perspective—developing, designing, and evaluating them.
Upon successful completion of the Master’s programme, you will be eligible to pursue doctoral studies.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
The Master's programme in
International Business and Engineering
at SRH University equips you with the comprehensive knowledge and skills needed for a successful career at the intersection of business and engineering. The modules combine engineering fundamentals, business aspects, and hands-on management skills, including international marketing, innovation management, and strategic corporate management.
At the end of the second semester, you will have the opportunity to deepen your knowledge in elective modules based on your individual interests, preparing you optimally for the challenges of the global economy.
We are happy to provide further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
17.10.2022
16.10.2023
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Professor
Research Associate
Professor
Professor
Gastprofessorin
Professor
Lecturer
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €770 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. So, you'll have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in International Business and Engineering,
you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree (final grade of at least 2.5 | German system) in
business engineering, engineering or management
possibly a preparatory course
Successful interview
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: