Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/mechanical-engineering/e/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Engineering | Heidelberg
Do you like technology and would like to learn how to develop innovative ideas and transform them into functional machines and products for tomorrow? Study mechanical engineering at SRH!
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
from €690 per month
1st intake
Coming in 2025
With the fundamental subjects (mathematics, physics, technical mechanics, CAD, electrical engineering, thermodynamics), you will immediately dive deeper into the exciting world of engineering. Building on these basics, you will analyse technical questions and develop innovative solutions (machine elements, innovation management, product development). You will apply this knowledge in your industrial internship.
You will also deepen your knowledge of programming and calculating (finite elements) of more complex tasks during your studies. Furthermore, you will apply all of your skills to questions relating to vehicle and drive technology (basics of mobility), turbomachinery and power plant technology.
You will also gain insights into the automation of production lines (control and automation technology, robot technology).
With these broad basics, you are very well prepared for your future professional life as a mechanical engineer. With our internationally recognised Bachelor's programme, you can start your career or a Master's programme upon graduation.
After completing your Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering, you can either deepen your knowledge with a Master's program or jump directly into your career with practical experience. Our program provides you with the best opportunities for exciting and challenging positions in industry or academia.
Possible fields of employment for our graduates include:
Engineer in the area of research and development
Construction engineer
Engineer in product development
Production Manager
Technical management
Technical Sales
Engineer in quality management or patent matters
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
At the beginning of the Bachelor's programme in Mechanical Engineering, we teach you the basics of natural sciences and engineering, essential for understanding complex engineering interrelationships. These basics form the foundation for the other modules.
Product design is a central component of the study programme, divided into various aspects such as innovation and economics, construction and automation. You can then apply the knowledge you have learnt in a real-life context in a product development project and an industrial internship. You will also deal with topics such as fluid mechanics and heat transfer in research and development before working on a topic of your choice as part of your Bachelor's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Research Associate
Research Associate
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA (incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine): €690 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA:
€4,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the already paid-for study period. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations, so you have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Mechanical Engineering
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
After you have applied for the programme, you will take part in
an application test and an interview
.
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: