Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/engineering-sustainable-technology-management-mobility-automotive-industry/e/

Master
Engineering and Sustainable Technology Management
Mobility and Automotive Industry
Master of Engineering | Berlin
From 2025 also at the Heidelberg campus!*
Shape the future of mobility! Learn how to design the latest technologies and promote innovation in a sustainable way with our Automotive & Mobility Master's. Develop your soft skills and become a mobility expert who enjoys great job prospects.
Request information
Apply now
From 2025 also at the Heidelberg campus!*
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Heidelberg
Costs:
from €790 € per month
SMSCP Certification
You'll obtain the Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP) certification at level 1-3
You gain an in-depth insight into current topics such as autonomous driving, alternative drive concepts, assistance systems and new sales and business concepts in e-mobility. At the same time, you learn how to design and operate mobility and automotive systems using the latest technologies while driving innovation and sustainable economic success.
Thanks to our skill-based appraoch, you will learn how to deal with integrated systems and complex technologies and will have the opportunity to improve the soft skills that tomorrow’s employers are looking for.
In addition, you receive the “
Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP)
” certification at level 1-3.
During your studies you learn how to manage projects and change, how to promote innovation and sustainability and lead intercultural teams. Thanks to integrated projects you get to develop your communication, presentation and negotiation skills and benefit from international job opportunities.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management tasks within the Automotive or Commercial Vehicle Industry
Positions within Car Sharing Providers or Car Rental Companies
Product Manager
Consultant
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the first two semesters, you will acquire basic knowledge in electrical engineering, CAD design, and sustainable technology management. You will also learn data analysis and programming, the basics of artificial intelligence, and software development. Project and risk management, as well as future mobility concepts, are also part of the programme.
In the last two semesters, you will deepen your knowledge of advanced artificial intelligence, new mobility technologies and cyber security. A company project or internship and the Master's thesis round off your studies.
The Siemens SMSCP certificate at levels 1-3 is also part of the curriculum.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
The Siemens SMSCP certificate is part of the curriculum. Thanks to the examination you will find it easy to work your way into new systems and to apply your new expertise. The certification is not only well-known in technical industries, it will also help you kick-start your career.
More information about SMSCP
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 206
Professor
Marketing & Sales
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 206
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Engineering and Sustainable Technology Management - Mobility and Automotive Industry
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Engineering (Environmental Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Mechatronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering etc.) or (Natural) Sciences
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: