Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/photography/v/

Master
Master of Arts |  Berlin
Deepen your knowledge of photography. Think interdisciplinary. Develop a unique, modern photographic vision. With the Master's degree programme in Photography, you will find your individual style and define your career path as a photographer and designer.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
Summer and winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
Duration:
4 Semester
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
790 € pro Monat
The Master's degree programme in Photography provides critical perspectives on photography and new visual media. You will acquire the tools to take a critical look at your own work and that of your colleagues. At the same time, you will look at the outside world, the professional world of image makers and the historical roots of the medium of the image. The programme offers enough space and flexibility to refine your own photographic orientation and artistic practice.
The M.A. Photography prepares you for immediate entry into the diverse visual arts industry. This could mean working as an independent artistic or applied photographer, picture editor, art buyer or art director, for example. Due to the theoretical focus of the programme, you will also be able to pursue a career as a curator for museums and galleries. The international Master of Arts degree also enables you to pursue an academic career, including a doctorate and post-doctorate.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Supervised by SRH lecturer Harshini Karunaratne and the TimeLab team, our Master's students were able to demonstrate their visual storytelling skills at the ‘Symposium for New Media and Electronic Art’.
The event at the Alte Münze in Berlin gave them an excellent opportunity to familiarise themselves with Berlin's extensive creative scene.
The artists and art enthusiasts experienced a unique location where they could take part in creative shows, performances and workshops that also made use of innovative technologies.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Your modules
The Master's degree programme in Photography offers a comprehensive education that focuses on various aspects of photography and its contextualisation. Students complete several modules that include both practical and theoretical components. Key topics include the development of individual photographic practices, methods of image analysis and an examination of the history of photography.
The modules are divided into different phases, starting with basic laboratory courses and integrated practical projects that focus on exploring the medium of photography. Advanced courses deal with specific topics such as photography as an object, printing techniques and interdisciplinary approaches. A particular focus is on the relationship between photography and space and the critical examination of contemporary photographic practices.
In addition to practical projects, theoretical foundations are taught, including media and photographic theory. Students have the opportunity to develop their own projects and present them as part of excursions and practical projects. The programme ends with a Master's colloquium and a Master's thesis, in which students present their research findings and creative work.
We will be happy to send you further information. You will also find the complete curriculum there (order information material).
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
AD2186 revolves around the total solar eclipse that will take place on 16 July 2186 - the longest total solar eclipse between the Neolithic period and the year 6000 (CE). The project discusses the mass psychological effects of observing a total solar eclipse and integrates the cognitive shift that occurs, which has now been proven by initial studies conducted a few months ago.
When observing a total solar eclipse, a so-called self-transcendental state can be experienced, through which the observers perceive themselves physically and psychologically less as individuals and identify more strongly with a collective and their environment. The effects are increased prosocial behaviour, collectively oriented thinking and a feeling of connectedness.
Contact:
Website:
www.matthiasleidinger.com
Instagram:
@matthiasleidinger
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Study Advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 218
previous slide
next slide
28.11.2024
The official career fair of SRH University Heidelberg! The Career:night offers top companies from various sectors, exciting talks, networking, DJ beats and a cocktail bar. Plus: application portfolio check and photo shoot.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €790 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €5700 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
In addition to efficient organisation, a goal-oriented course of study also requires a solid financial basis in order to be able to pay rent, living costs and tuition fees. There are various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes.
We have summarised all the financing options for you here.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master’s programme in Photography, you will need to provide
University or university of applied sciences degree (Bachelor or Diplom) (Please submit your degree certificate and your transcript of records. If you do not yet have the degree certificate, you can also submit it before the start of the programme).
2-3 creative works (you can also submit other works from your portfolio).
Letter of motivation
English language certificate*
Certificate of general or advanced technical college entrance qualification
Curriculum vitae with current passport photo
Copy of ID (front and back), copy of National Identity Card for foreign students
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now
Share: