Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/engineering-international-business-renewable-energy-water-waste-management/e/

Master
Engineering and International Business
Renewable Energy, Water and Waste Management
Master of Engineering | Berlin
Succeed in the Green and Blue Economy with a Master's in Renewable Energies. Learn to understand systems and projects both technically and economically while benefitting from top-quality and international job prospects.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120 ECTS
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€790 per month
Our interdisciplinary programme helps you gain management expertise and expands your renewable energy and technical knowledge. You gain a comprehensive understanding of both economic and technical systems and learn to work, think and act like both an engineer and an entrepreneur.
In addition to international business topics, you focus on three technological areas in your elective module: renewable energies, sustainable water supply and sustainable waste management.
Thanks to the large number of relevant jobs in innovative growth sectors and the interdisciplinary and skill-oriented approach of the programme, you will benefit from great career prospects.
Choose from the following career paths:
Consultant in companies and public institutions
Positions in planning and development offices
Management positions within plant operators and manufacturers as well as energy and water suppliers
and many more
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the first semesters of your Master's programme in Engineering and International Business, you will acquire in-depth knowledge of electrical engineering, mechanics, materials science and physical chemistry. You will also gain insights into the areas of international marketing, sales, finance and management accounting.
In the following semesters, you will learn methods for analysing the environment and have the opportunity to take electives. Topics such as international negotiations, artificial intelligence and geoinformation systems are also covered.
You will complete your study programme by writing a Master's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information., including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 206
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Engineering and International Business - Renewable Energy, Water and Waste Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Engineering (Environmental Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Mechatronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering
etc.) or
(Natural) Sciences
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: