Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/engineering-and-sustainable-technology-management-smart-building-technologies/e/

Master
Engineering and Sustainable Technology Management
Smart Building Technologies
Master of Engineering | Berlin
Smart buildings are the future! In the Smart Building Master's you learn about digital building infrastructure and technology management. Thanks to the many projects, you will have the skills that employers are looking for.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
SMSCP Certification
You'll obtain the Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP) certification at level 1-3
In this programme you learn how to make buildings smarter and more sustainable. You get to expand your knowledge in the areas of building information modeling and automation, as well as decentralised energy supply. In addition, you will be able to develop your project, communication and intercultural skills through projects.
Apart from getting technological expertise, our students also get to develop their soft skills and personality. This skill-based approach along with numerous projects help our Master’s students in fostering the competences that future employers are looking for.
In addition, you receive the “
Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP)
” certification at level 1-3.
Our Master's programme helps you in becoming an expert in technology management and digital building infrastructure. After finishing your studies you will know how sustainable and smart solutions can have a lasting impact on building infrastructure. This project and skill-based approach prepares you for demanding management positions around the globe.
Choose from the following career paths:
Management positions within the Construction Industry and Architectural Companies
Positions within System Integration
Product Manager
Consultant
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
The Siemens SMSCP certificate is part of the curriculum. Thanks to the examination you will find it easy to work your way into new systems and to apply your new expertise. The certification is not only well-known in technical industries, it will also help you kick-start your career.
More information about SMSCP
In the Engineering and Sustainable Technology Management - Smart Building Technologies M.Eng. study programme, you will acquire knowledge in various areas that will equip you for modern, sustainable building technology. The first semester focuses on fundamentals such as electrical engineering, CAD design and data analysis. You will learn to understand and apply industrial networks. Throughout your studies, you will delve deeper into artificial intelligence, building control and BIM (Building Information Modelling). The third semester focuses on decentralised energy management systems and facility management, and the fourth semester on writing the Master's thesis.
The Siemens SMSCP certificate at level 1-3 is also part of the curriculum.
We are happy to provide you with further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 206
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Engineering and Sustainable Technology Management - Smart Building Technologies
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Architecture, HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning), Computer Science, Electrical Engineering or related fields
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: