Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/short-courses/solar-summer-team-up/e/

Short Courses
Certificate | Berlin
Become a solar energy expert! Extend your knowledge of photovoltaic systems and renewable energies, train your technical skills, and get in touch with the solar power industry.
Contact us
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Certificate
Start:
22 October - 8 November 2025
Model:
multiple models
Language:
English
Duration:
2 weeks
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€660
During our
Solar Summer Team-up!
short course you will learn about the design and installation of photovoltaic on and off-grid systems, you increase your understanding of capacity-building in major solar markets and you get to expand your professional and personal network.
Apart from deepening your knowledge about solar energy and photovoltaic-hybrid systems you also gain more insights into wind and bio energy in extra workshops and visit industry-relevant trade fairs.
Next training: 22 October - 8 November 2025 |
brochure
.
Our hands-on solar training provides you with the relevant knowledge and skills to improve your career opportunities in photovoltaics and renewable energy business.
The content of the course is tailored to the participants' home countries and target markets and helps you in growing your professional and personal network.
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for Renewable Energies
E-mail:
[email protected]
On-campus participation: €660 (incl. tax)
Online participation: €330 (incl. tax)
It is possible to only select individual modules or modules that are relevant to you. Partial scholarships of €200 are possible in special cases. Further information on module prices and discounts can be found in our
brochure
.
If you...
have an engineering, business or commercial background
are a working professional employed in a solar company
are a freelancer in the solar industry
are an Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies student in your final years of study
a recent Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies graduate
...we invite you to join our
Solar Summer Team Up!
course.
Please provide the following with your application:
proof of proficient English language skills (at least B2/C1 level)
letter of motivation
curriculum vitae
We are happy to welcome you to SRH University. This is our application process:
Please apply to join our Solar Summer Team-up! course by contacting the course coordinator Mr Matthias Raab | Email:
[email protected]
| Phone:
+49 162 8002010
After submitting your documents to us, we will review them and invite you to an interview if you meet the criteria
You transfer the course fees and apply for your visa (if relevant)
You start the online preparation course
You either continue online (online participation) or travel to Berlin to continue your training (on-campus participation)
After finishing the training you receive a certificate and stay in contact thanks to our online follow-up activities
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Share: