Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/short-courses/solar-winter-school/e/

Short Courses
Certificate | Berlin
Start your career in a promising field of business and technology – solar energy! Extend your knowledge and skills in photovoltaics and connect with the PV industry and academic experts.
Contact us
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Certificate
Start:
10 - 23 March 2025
Model:
multiple models
Language:
English
Duration:
2 weeks
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
€950
2 Tracks
Solar Employee & Solar Entrepreneur
Designed with a focus on practical knowledge transfer, our Solar Winter School is a hands-on career development programme that connects you to professionals from the photovoltaics industry and academia, enhances your business and industry-relevant practical skillset and improves your international employment perspectives in emerging and mature markets.
Build the career that suits you best! Choose one of our two tracks:
Solar Employee Track
- gain a thorough understanding of solar companies, the market, and the industry.
Solar Entrepreneur Track
- obtain knowledge about founding a photovoltaci business and developing it in a successful and sustainable manner.
Next training: 10 - 23 March 2025
You have the option of completing the training
on-site or online
.
Your course content in detail
Attending this winter school is the first step in becoming an entrepreneur or employee in the photovoltaic energy business. You learn all the basics about photovoltaic technology and acquire essential knowledge for its implementation. The programme combines theory and practical approaches to meet the challenges within one of the fastest growing business areas - solar energy.
Content:
Photovoltaics - An introduction and overview
Electrical properties of solar cells and system design
Quality of photovoltaic modules
Components of on and off-grid photovoltaic systems (incl. energy storage and hybrid power generators)
Optimisation of on and off-grid systems with examples and exercises
Marketing of photovoltaics for urban and rural power supply
Sales and planning skills
Workshop practical installations and ideas for new photovoltaic products
Excursion to off-grid photovoltaic installations and solar manufacturers
Online training preparation
Business matchmaking
Industry networking
Total commitment: 6 weeks in total
2 weeks online preparation
2 weeks hands-on training in Berlin (on-campus participation) or online (online participation)
Min. half-week internship at a German or international solar company
2 week online follow-up after training completion
The photovoltaics industry, which experiences high growth rates and revenues, provides major job opportunities for entrepreneurs and specialists who want to gain a foothold in the market.
Due to the decentralised nature of photovoltaic energy supply and the development of green energy projects in emerging markets, upcoming solar professionals are able to develop regional business structures and become attractive partners for national and international solar companies.
After finishing this intensive short course graduates...
have the necessary knowledge and skills to
start their own business within the solar industry
have a thorough understanding of solar businesses, the market, and the industry and
benefit from differerent career opportunities within the photovoltaics industry
During your training you can set a focus based on your personal preferences and your career aspirations. While most of the content is identical in both tracks, some content is adapted to your career plans:
Solar Employee Track |
brochure
Choose this track if you want to work for
national and international companies active in photovoltaic solar energy industry
Specialisation focuses on important
management topics
such as effective communication, business development, quality management, finance, supply chain management and many more
Solar Entrepreneur Track |
brochure
Choose this track if you want to start your
own solar business
Specialisation focuses on
entrepreneurial topics
such as business idea generation, personal profiling, market analysis, marketing, sales, finance and many more
previous slide
next slide
External lecturer for Renewable Energies
E-mail:
[email protected]
On-campus participation: €950 (incl. tax)
Online participation: €475 (incl. tax)
If you...
have an engineering, business or commercial background or
are a working professional employed in a solar company or
are a freelancer in the solar industry
are an Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies student in your final years of study or
a recent Engineering, Management or Renewable Energies graduate
...we invite you to join our Solar Winter School.
Please provide the following with your application:
proof of proficient English language skills (at least B2/C1 level)
letter of motivation
curriculum vitae
We are happy to welcome you to SRH university. This is our application process:
Please apply to join our Solar Winter School by contacting the course coordinator Mr Matthias Raab | Email:
[email protected]
| Phone:
+49 162 8002010
After submitting your documents to us, we will review them and invite you to an interview if you meet the criteria
You transfer the course fees and apply for your visa (if relevant)
You start the online preparation course
You either continue online (online participation) or travel to Berlin to continue your training (on-campus participation)
After finishing the training you receive a certificate and get two months of post-training support
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Share: