Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/supply-chain-management-english/g/

Master
Master of Science | multiple locations
If you want to analyse and deal with multi-level value chains, digital business processes and complex IT structures while strengthening your leadership and communication skills, then the Master's in Supply Chain Management at SRH is right for you!
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semester/2 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Fuerth,
									
										Hamburg,
									
										Hamm,
									
										Cologne
Costs:
from €680 per month
Our Master's programme helps you design, manage and analyse complex value chains. You gain an intensive insight into global supply chains and develop your communication, negotiation and presentation skills in projects.
Thanks to the technology and process-oriented approach, you will learn about SCM and ERP systems and extend your knowledge in international law, logistics and process management. In addition, you will become proficient in current topics such as business intelligence, SCM 4.0, big data and operations research.
Students will receive a certificate for their learning experience in SAP - in the modules Sales & Distribution (SD), Material Management (MM) and Production Planning (PP) - as part of their education at SRH University.
Upon graduation, you are able to manage complex supply chains and are prepared for demanding management positions around the globe.
Choose from the following career paths:
Supply chain manager
Logistics manager
Operations planner
Inventory specialist
Procurement analyst
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
The Master's degree programme in Supply Chain Management at SRH University prepares you step by step for the complex challenges of global logistics using our CORE principle. The programme begins with fundamental topics such as international management and logistics strategies. You will gain insights into modern IT systems and learn how technologies and data are used to optimise supply chains.
Over the course of your studies, you will deepen your knowledge in areas such as data analysis, simulation and process optimisation. You will become familiar with modelling methods and learn how to use big data to control networks. A particular highlight is working with SAP systems, where you can acquire an SAP certificate that is highly regarded in the industry.
The programme is rounded off with practical modules on founding a company, personnel management and international aspects of business law, before you deepen your knowledge with a comprehensive Master's thesis in the third semester.
We will be happy to send you further information material. You will also find the complete curriculum there.
Order information material
Study classic supply chain management or specialise in one of our four focus areas and deepen your expertise in this field.
Digital supply chain management utilises modern technologies and digital solutions to increase transparency, efficiency and responsiveness in the supply chain. The use of big data, artificial intelligence and automation enables proactive control and optimisation of the entire value chain.
Lean supply chain managers ensure the consistent elimination of non-value-adding work and the sustainable reduction of throughput times in the supply chain - from production to delivery of the finished goods to the end consumer.
Sustainable supply chain management strives to organise the supply chain in an environmentally friendly and socially responsible way. Sustainable practices are integrated in the areas of production, logistics and material procurement in order to reduce the ecological footprint and comply with ethical standards.
How do used products get back into the economic cycle? If you don't see returns as something that should be avoided, but as an opportunity for completely new business areas, then the Reverse SCM degree programme is the right place for you.
The
bridging semester
offers you maximum flexibility for your personal development. If you would like to take a break after 90 ECTS in your degree programme, you can use this time to gain
work experience
, complete
internships
or learn
languages
. During this bridging semester, you pay no tuition fees and extend your period of study by a further semester.
Our CORE principle
In addition to technical and methodological skills, social and personal skills are crucial today.
SRH University
's innovative, successful and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly in practice - for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
Study advisor
[email protected]
Contact me
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 40 3346564 25
Contact me
Lecturer
Lecturer
Professor
Lecturer
Professor
Lecturer
Professor
Professor
Lecturer
Lecturer
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizens: €790 / month
Non-EU/EEA citizens: €6,800 per semester
One-off enrolment fee: € 750 (EU/EEA) / € 1,000 (non-EU/EEA)
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire period of study. The one-off enrolment fee is EUR 750.00 or EUR 1,000.With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations.This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
As a state-recognised, private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. This income goes towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students and quality assurance. In this way, we ensure that you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
650 € / month
The monthly fee remains the same for the entire duration of your studies. The one-off enrolment fee is EUR 750.00.
If you come from a non-EEA country without a residence permit, the enrolment fee is €1,000 - you must pay the tuition fees for one semester in advance. From the second semester onwards, payments for the remaining semesters are due six weeks before the end of the study period already paid for. Payments are to be made semester by semester.
With the exception of any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. This gives you maximum cost transparency during your studies.
About your financing options
You can register at any time without obligation via our
online portal
to apply. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master's degree programme in Supply Chain Management in Berlin, Hamburg, Cologne or Hamm, you will need:
For admission to the Master's programme you need:
A Bachelor's degree with
180 ECTS
General higher education entrance qualification
(Abitur) or entrance qualification for universities of applied sciences
A signed
curriculum vitae
A
photo
and
proof of health insurance
If your documents are approved, we will invite you to a personal admissions interview. Here we want to find out more about your programme-specific knowledge, creativity and motivation. It will also give you the opportunity to ask more detailed questions about the degree programme. If you are unable to visit us on campus, we are also happy to offer an online appointment.
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You apply online via the SRH application portal
If you fulfil the admission requirements, we will invite you to a selection interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive a letter of acceptance and a study contract from us
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
We will send you your letter of admission
You take part in our induction week and then you're ready to go!
Apply now!
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you