Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/supply-chain-management-distance-learning/g/

Master
Master of Science | distance-learning
You will learn to plan, optimise and manage global value creation networks - ideal for professionals who want to study in a flexible manner and take their career to the next level.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
distance learning
Language:
English
ECTS:
120 ECTS
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 or 6 semesters/2 or 3 years
Location:
Bundesweit
Costs:
€420 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
During your studies, you will learn to manage and plan value creation networks in logistics, analyse, optimise, and develop business and material flow processes. The programme is aimed at Bachelor's graduates who have studied logistics, business administration, or technology and want to kick-start their careers.
During your studies, you will learn everything about management, logistics processes and logistics information systems in and for logistics-relevant areas of industrial, commercial and logistics service companies. Analysing business and IT processes and planning, managing and controlling new processes - no problem. After completing the programme, you will be well prepared. The Supply Chain Management distance learning programme provides you with multi-layered know-how and essential skills in supply chain operation, strategic logistics management, process design, international management and big data. Social, methodological and action-orientated skills will help you develop personally and strengthen your personality. In Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (ERP), you will preferably work with SAP systems during your studies.
After graduating you will be equipped with organisational talent, excellent communication skills and the ability to work under pressure and will find a job in almost any company that manages and handles logistics processes. The job spectrum ranges from consulting, sales and marketing to controlling, IT and process optimisation, even at specialist logistics service providers. Supply chain management is still a growing professional field and promises optimal career opportunities for you as a qualified specialist.
Career paths in supply chain management:
Supply Chain Manager
Logistics Manager
Global Operations Planner
Consultant for process optimisation
IT and ERP specialist
Supply Chain Management remains a growing sector with excellent career prospects - ideal for innovative and solution-orientated minds.
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: