Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/international-business-administration-supply-management/b/

Bachelor
International Business Administration
Supply Chain Management
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin, Leipzig, Cologne
With the Supply Chain Management B.A. in Berlin you will become an expert in logistics! You will not only acquire management skills, but also deepen your logistics expertise. Internships and projects will also strengthen your practical experience.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
Winter semester
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
180 & 210
Info:
accredited,
										
											without NC
Duration:
6 or 7 semesters
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Leipzig,
									
										Cologne
Costs:
€ 690 / month
Our new Bachelor's programme B.A. International Business Administration - Focus on Supply Chain Management provides you with a well-rounded international business education that trains important soft and hard skills that employers are looking for.
You learn the basics of management in modules such as economics, international management, accounting or finance and apply your newly acquired expertise in projects with students from all over the world and in your internship.
You understand the difference between different company forms, how to set up contracts and how to protect intellectual property. You know how to use data from the entire company for important business decisions and are familiar with consumer behaviour.
You acquire knowledge about leadership styles and what makes good leadership, and you have experience with different creativity techniques to foster innovation and new ideas. In the interdisciplinary entrepreneurship project, you develop a new product with other students and have the chance to apply agile project management knowledge.
Thanks to the supply chain management focus, you are able to plan, manage and analyse the flow of material, information and goods in companies. You are familiar with global procurement and supply chains and learn more about the advantages and disadvantages as well as the sustainability of different logistics models and means of transport. You learn more about the purchase, production and storage of goods, their costs and decision-making factors for companies.
You grasp the importance of process management for successful supply chains and flows of goods, know how to forecast future demand and are able to gain an understanding and use enterprise resource planning systems such as SAP first-hand.
In addition to the general international focus of the programme, our language modules and the project and skill-based approach help you to be well prepared for the business and supply chain challenges of the 21st century.
You also get to choose between:
7 semester- / 3.5-year option (International Experience Track)
6 semester- / 3-year option (Fast Track)
Due to the shortage of skilled labour in the logistics industry, supply chain experts are in high demand. After your studies, you are be able to plan, integrate, control and analyse supply chain and business processes. You get to benefit from positions within the manufacturing, trade and logistics industries. As a management all-rounder, you can also start a career in a variety of industries, small and large companies, start-ups and institutions.
Future job positions and areas of work include:
Supply Chain Manager
Logistics Manager
Account Management
Project Management
Management and administration positions
Purchasing
Disposition
Consulting
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the International Business Administration - Supply Chain Management programme, you will acquire comprehensive business expertise that will prepare you for an international career. You will learn about critical topics such as marketing, accounting, global management and finance and apply your knowledge directly in projects with other students and an internship. Topics such as consumer behaviour, contract law and leadership also play an essential role in preparing you for the demands of the global economy.
The Supply Chain Management specialisation gives you a deeper insight into companies' planning and managing material, information and goods flows. You will deal with global procurement and supply chains, logistics models, production, and warehousing. You will also learn how to successfully implement process management and gain practical knowledge using enterprise resource planning systems such as SAP. Thus, you will be prepared for the challenges of modern supply chains and logistics processes.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
Your choice
We offer you the opportunity to complete your studies within 3 or 3.5 years, so you can follow your own path. Choose between:
International Experience Track | 3.5 years duration (7 semesters)
: internship/semester abroad (6 months) + internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
Fast Track | 3 years duration (6 semesters)
: internship in the final semester (14 weeks) included
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 217
Contact me
Research Associate
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Citizenship | EU/EEA
(incl. Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine)
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
- Berlin: €690 per month
- Leipzig: €620 per month
- Cologne: €650 per month
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
- Berlin: €790 per month
- Leipzig: €650 per month
- Cologne: €680 per month
Citizenship | Non-EU/EEA
International Experience Track
(7 semesters)
- Berlin: €4,725 per semester
- Leipzig: €3,900 per semester
- Cologne: €3,900 per semester
Fast Track
(6 semesters)
- Berlin: €5,355 per semester
- Leipzig: €4,500 per semester
- Cologne: €4,500 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in International Business Administration -  Supply Chain Management
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: