Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/international-business-sustainability-management/b/

Master
International Business
Sustainability Management
Master of Arts | Hamburg
Our Master’s programme in International Business - Sustainability Management equips you with the skills to develop sustainable and forward-thinking strategies for businesses. The focus is on creating innovative solutions, with careful consideration of relevant regulations, such as ESG standards.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
60-120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
2-4 Semester
Location:
Hamburg
Costs:
690 €
									
										-
Show costs split
In the
Master’s programme in Sustainability Management
, you will learn to critically and systematically engage with the ever-evolving topics surrounding sustainability. This enables you to develop the skills to understand and integrate the interconnections between economy, society, and ecology within a business context, transforming them into forward-looking strategies. By exploring financial mechanisms and other sustainability-related regulations (including ESG) during your studies, you will gain insights into their importance and learn how to apply them in specific business situations.
You will also be introduced to digital innovations such as Greentech, Blockchain, and Frugal Innovation, learning how to leverage these technologies in the development of sustainable business models – whether in customer relations, supply chains, or workforce management. With your degree, you will additionally acquire the communication skills needed to initiate and support change management processes within organisations.
With a degree in Sustainability Management, numerous career paths in sustainable corporate leadership await you. You can work in areas such as:
Sustainability and Environmental Management
Executive Assistant with a focus on Sustainability
Sustainability Manager
Sustainability Consulting Analyst
Public Relations Officer specialising in Sustainability
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Share: