Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/sustainable-supply-chain-management/g/

Master
Supply Chain Management
Sustainable Supply Chain Management
Master of Science | Berlin
Discover our Sustainable Supply Chain Management Master's! Gain a comprehensive perspective of global supply chains - from sourcing, product development, efficiency and transport to end-of-life - while training your analytical and technical skills.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120 ECTS
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month
									
										-
Show costs split
Sustainable supply chains and business processes are becoming more complex and more diversified. Constant re-engineering and environmental pressures force companies to evaluate their supply chains regularly. Sustainability is on the rise, and its surge generates an ongoing demand for a new generation of sustainable supply chain managers who know how to deal with multi-level supply chains, reverse logistics, advanced business processes, complex IT structures and multicultural stakeholders.
In our new Master's programme, you learn how to plan, manage and analyse supply chain strategies, processes and performance. You know how to identify supply chain bottlenecks, how to find appropriate solutions and thus, how to improve overall performance. Modules on Industry and SCM 4.0 help you understand the digitalisation of supply chains and foster your expertise in relevant topics such as IoT, Cyber-Physical Systems, automation, and big data. You extend your knowledge of different Supply Chain Management and Enterprise Resource Planning systems such as SAP and train your analytical skills to model and analyse business processes, workflows, and material flows. The Process Management and Operations Research modules teach you about process mining, the importance of optimising and harmonising business and IT processes, different process standards and supply chain methods.
Given the sustainable nature of the programme, the M.Sc. Sustainable Supply Chain Management focuses on downstream and upstream activities along the supply chain. Thus, you gain an understanding of how to implement sustainability along the supply chain and how to assess and measure sustainability and total lifecycle costs in supply chains. You know that sustainability in the supply chain starts with green and sustainable product development and uses reverse logistics to eliminate waste and the excessive use of resources. You grasp the concepts of circular economy and sustainability management and know that sustainable value chains should include environmental, human rights, governance, and other CSR issues. Thanks to the programme's project- and competence-based approach, you also get to train your intercultural, analytical, team-working and leadership skills in various hands-on projects with your classmates from around the world.
Students will receive a certificate for their learning experience in SAP - in the modules Sales & Distribution (SD), Material Management (MM) and Production Planning (PP) - as part of their education at SRH University.
After completing the Master’s in Sustainable Supply Chain Management you know how supply chains, processes and products can be designed to improve overall sustainability and how IT systems and business intelligence can help reach sustainability goals. You will have an understanding of the most important environmental accounting and reporting standards, have learned how to start a business and how to draft international sales contracts.
Thanks to the skill-based, intercultural, sustainable and technological focus of the Master of Science programme, you will be prepared for challenging positions in supply chain management and logistics but also other industries, such as retail, manufacturing, technology, healthcare, and many others.
Possible careers include:
Supply Chain Manager
Logistics Manager
Operations Planner
Inventory Specialist
Procurement Analyst
Sustainable Supply Chain Specialist
Sustainable Supply Chain Consultant
Sustainable Supply Chain Analyst
Other opportunities may also lie in areas that are closely linked to Sustainable Supply Chain Management, such as Sustainability Management, Corporate Social Responsibility, Circular Economy, Environmental Compliance or Ethical and Sustainable Sourcing.
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Click here for the applicant portal
On the Master's degree programme in Sustainable Supply Chain Management, you will acquire in-depth knowledge of the sustainable design of supply chains. You will develop the skills to integrate ecological and social aspects into strategic decisions and learn how innovative technologies can increase efficiency and transparency in supply chains. Topics such as the circular economy, reverse logistics and environmental assessment are emphasised. With practical case studies and simulations, you will learn how processes can be sustainably optimised and regulatory requirements implemented. This will prepare you optimally for the challenges in the area of sustainable supply chains.
We will be happy to send you further information. You will also find the full curriculum there.
Order information material
Our CORE principle
In addition to technical and methodological skills, social and personal skills are crucial today.
SRH University
's innovative, successful and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly in practice - for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
Professor
Professor
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,800 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Sustainable Supply Chain Management
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree in
Logistics
,
Business Engineering
,
Business Administration/Management
,
Engineering
or IT
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you