Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/sustainable-battery-production-engineering-dual/e/

Master
Master of Engineering | Berlin
Energy storage, electric cars and ethics. Gain a thorough understanding of battery production! Our dual engineering Master's combines production engineering, battery technology as well as sustainability management and strengthens your soft skills.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
dual
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 semesters/2 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €790 per month | The partner company usually pays the tuition fees.
Partner company
You will need a partner company before starting your studies. It usually also pays the tuition fees.
The storage of sustainably generated energy is becoming more and more important. Batteries are not only relevant for the use in electric vehicles but also for stationary applications. In order to push the energy revolution forward, a new generation of experts is needed who understand the technological and business aspects of battery production and are able to put these topics into the overall industrial and social context.
Our M.Eng. Sustainable Battery Production Engineering provides you with both technical expertise in battery technology and production engineering as well as knowledge of management basics.
In the Master's programme, you learn more about the technological principles of battery systems and battery production techniques and current technologies such as automation, robotics and mechatronics. You gain an understanding of measurement technology, quality assurance, data analysis and recycling technologies and study and work hands-on thanks to the integrated lab and team work activities.
Modules on product lifecycle management, risk and project management and innovative business models are part of the curriculum as are digital signal processing, artificial intelligence, cloud technologies and virtual reality.
In addition, you get to view economic and technical systems not just from an individual but a comprehensive perspective and learn to always make decisions taking sustainability into consideration.
The topics circular economy and sustainable development are therefore guiding principles that help you take ecological, social and ethical challenges that are associated with battery production into account. This way you do not only extend your expertise but also get to further develop your personality.
Thanks to the skill- and project-focused approach, you are able to strengthen your analytical, communicative, social and intercultural skills in projects and during your work in your partner company. The dual concept also helps you not only to gain better insights into everyday working life and its challenges, you also build up a network, become an integral part of the partner company and thus increase your career prospects.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to obtain the following extracurricular certificates:
Siemens Mechatronic Systems Certificate Program (SMSCP) at level 1-2
Battery Technician (European Battery Alliance & EIT-InnovEnergy)
The increasing demand for electric vehicles and energy storage systems for private and commercial use also creates an increased need for new battery technologies and a growing global battery production.
As a graduate of the Master of Engineering in Sustainable Battery Production Engineering, you have learned to view battery production from different angles. Apart from using only your technical and business knowledge, you also consider social and environmental factors when performing analyses and making business decisions
The work assignments in your partner company, study projects, laboratory work and innovative academic formats will help you train your technical and soft skills and increase your network and employability.
After completing your Master's degree in battery technology, you will be a sought-after generalist that can start a career in various areas of battery production, in today's and tomorrow's automotive industry and its suppliers but also in the public sector or in consulting.
Career opportunities lie in the following industries and areas:
Automotive industry
Automotive suppliers
Manufacturers of other battery types (e.g. stationary applications)
Recycling solutions for batteries
Consulting and training in battery production
Digital industrial and service applications
Graduates of the Engineering Master's are able to apply for positions such as:
Innovation manager
Product manager
Project manager
Process Engineer
Consultant
Expert and Engineering positions
and many more
The internationally-recognised Master of Engineering degree also qualifies students to pursue a doctorate.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
In the first semesters of your Master's programme
in Sustainable Battery Production Engineering | dual
, you will acquire in-depth knowledge of the fundamental principles of sustainable battery technology and production processes. You will deepen your expertise in materials science, battery design and energy-efficient production. You will also develop a deep understanding of battery technology's ecological and economic aspects, particularly about sustainability and the circular economy.
During your studies, the focus will be on optimising production processes, automation, quality assurance, and resource management. As part of your dual study programme, regular work assignments allow you to apply your theoretical knowledge in a real company environment and gain valuable practical experience before writing your Master's thesis.
We will be happy to send you further information, including the complete curriculum.
Order information material
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 213
Contact me
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €790 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €4,740 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Sustainable Battery Production Engineering | dual
, you will need to provide
Bachelor of Science
or
Bachelor of Engineering
in
Production/Manufacturing Engineering, Material Science, Chemical Engineering, Electrical Engineering
or similar
Letter of motivation
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Proof of German language skills (required by the partner companies in Germany)
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
IMPORTANT: You will need a partner company before you start your studies
More information about the admission requirements
What is a dual study programme?
A dual study programme combines an academic education with relevant work experience. Even though a lot of full-time programmes offer work experience as well, e.g. as internships, dual programmes contain more practical periods. Students work a certain amount of hours per week in a partner company while joining lectures during the remaining time. This way they get to apply the newly-acquired knowledge straight away and become an integral part of the partner company. As most companies also either pay a training salary or pay the tuition fees, students benefit from a higher degree of financial security.
More information about dual studies
.
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: