Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/sustainability-and-circular-economy-management/n/

Master
Master of Arts | Hamm, Cologne
Do you believe that economy and ecology are not mutually exclusive per se? As a student on the Sustainability Management Master's programme, you will integrate innovative business models into your company and shape our sustainable future.
Request information
Apply now
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
120
Info:
accredited
Duration:
4 Semester
Location:
Hamm,
									
										Cologne
Costs:
680 €
									
										-
Show costs split
On the Sustainability Management Master's programme, you will learn how to successfully implement sustainable business models such as the circular economy, sharing economy or zero waste in practice.
We live in a time in which we are consuming our resources faster than they can be regenerated. The success of companies can therefore no longer be measured solely in terms of profit and growth. Instead, it is necessary to implement concepts such as the circular economy.
To this end, you will familiarise yourself with the corporate social responsibility of companies, deal intensively with sustainable business models such as the circular economy, consider the consumer's perspective in a sustainable context, set up reporting structures for sustainable projects and engage in an intensive exchange with our practice partners.
Of course, you will also be equipped with the necessary tools for your future career: project management, entrepreneurship and change management will be part of your future armoury to actively shape the future in a sustainable way.
Companies are undergoing change. They need academically well-trained employees who can actively support them in the transformation towards a sustainable company. Objectives and strategies are changing. Business models need to be rethought and implemented accordingly. Learned ways of thinking and attitudes need to be transformed.
This is your role! Whether as a Sustainability Manager, Circular Economy Manager, Consultant or Project Manager: sustainable corporate management and circular economy management are your terrain.
In your company, you are a driver for sustainable business practices, a central point of contact and a project, department, division or business manager.
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Modular and practical
The Master's degree programme in Sustainability and Circular Economy Management provides you with practical knowledge in sustainability, the circular economy and sustainable business models. You will learn how companies use resources efficiently and implement sustainable strategies. Advanced modules such as innovation management and stakeholder engagement will sharpen your ability to develop innovative solutions and communicate effectively.
Practice-oriented projects and collaborations with industry allow you to apply your knowledge directly and solve real-world challenges. You will also acquire valuable soft skills such as leadership and intercultural competence, which will prepare you for international careers in the future-oriented field of sustainability.
We will be happy to send you further information material, including the full curriculum.
Order information material
In addition to high-quality knowledge transfer in teaching according to the CORE principle and the training of professional, social and methodological skills, our university is also committed to the personal development of students. We have therefore introduced the so-called bridge semester to offer maximum flexibility for precisely this personal development.
How does this work and what are the requirements? It's quite simple.
Have you achieved 90 CPs in your Master's programme? Perfect. We now offer you two options:
You continue studying and complete your degree as quickly as possible.
You take a semester break and use this time to gain work experience, do internships, get a taste of companies, learn languages, acquire cultural competences or do whatever expands your skills. You don't have to pay any monthly fees for this semester. Of course, your studies will continue for another semester.
You can use this bridge semester for the purposes of personal and professional development at the earliest once you have achieved 90 CPs and you have completed your 3rd semester. A fee is charged for this bridge semester, but the last semester studying is then free of charge. The bridge semester is limited to one semester. You can self-report whether you have achieved the required CP before the bridge semester.
You still have the option of applying for a semester off (semester of leave). The bridge semester is an attractive parallel alternative.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
Contact us
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €680 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4700 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal.
We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Master’s programme in
Sustainability and Circular Economy Management M.A.
, you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
Letter of motivation
At least 1 year of practical work experience
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now!
Share:
Mail to SRH University
So much information
Keep that in mind!
Always ready for you