Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/user-experience-design-content-creation/d/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Arts | Berlin, Leipzig, Stuttgart
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Stuttgart
Using design and technology to move people, visualise messages and information, tell stories, expand realities, and change the environment - this is your professional future after completing the UX Design Bachelor's programme.
Request information
Apply now
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Stuttgart
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semester/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin,
									
										Leipzig,
									
										Stuttgart
Costs:
from €620 per month
*New study location:
From 2025 also at the SRH Campus Stuttgart (in accreditation)
Thanks to your UX Design Bachelor's programme, you are able to analyse user needs in the context of digital product development and derive usage requirements.
You know how to professionally evaluate and manage the complex development of digital products during the individual stages of the design process.
Our User Experience Design programme also helps you become an expert in content strategy, ensuring long-term success in the digital marketing mix.
Apart from gaining a deep insight into the user-centric design of digital experiences, you know how to plan and produce high-quality content.
In addition, you get to strengthen your soft skills in projects and expand your horizons and expertise during your internship or semester abroad.
The User Experience Design and Content Creation programme prepares you for the requirements of product and self-development, usability and content production - especially with regard to aspects such as values, emotional digital design and cultural differences
With your degree in B.A. User Experience Design you will work as a
UI/UX designer,
art director,
digital artist,
video and creative producer or
content creator.
You can also work as a
motion designer,
editor,
2D/3D technical artist or
in multimedia and video editing.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
The Bachelor's degree programme in User Experience Design and Content Creation provides comprehensive knowledge and skills in the areas of design, communication and media production. Students start with the basics of design and expand their knowledge through modules such as project management. Practical projects promote creative strategies and digital storytelling, while modules such as usability engineering and digital brand design offer in-depth insights.
There is a particular focus on user experience and creating content for different media formats, including social media, video and podcasts. Students will also learn methods of self-management and the application of technologies in interactive environments for VR/AR/MR. Other topics include the effects of artificial intelligence and media law.
In the 5th semester, students apply their knowledge in a free project and an internship or semester abroad. The programme concludes with a Bachelor's thesis in the field of user experience design. Overall, the programme prepares students to develop innovative solutions in the digital space and work successfully in the creative industry.
We will be happy to send you further information. You will also find the complete curriculum there.
Order your information material
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
The exciting topic of UX design has gradually arrived in Germany and is more important than ever in today's digital world. Without user-centred design, a company can no longer compete. For this reason, companies are constantly on the lookout for new creative minds in the UX field. UX designers are involved in the creative development process from the very beginning and accompany the product all the way to the customer.
Alex Schmidt, former student and UX designer
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University's
innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 201
Financing
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
.
We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the Bachelor's programme you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Apply now
Share: