Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/master/water-technology/e/

Master
Master of Engineering | Heidelberg
Water is essential for all forms of life and plays a crucial role in sustaining both human activities and natural ecosystems. In the Water Technology Master's programme, we prepare you to address one of the most pressing technological challenges of our time: sustainable water management.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Master of Engineering (M.Eng.)
Start:
1st april; 1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
90
Info:
accredited
Duration:
3 semesters/1.5 years
Location:
Heidelberg
Costs:
€770 per month
The growing global population, climate change, and the high demand for water in industries, agriculture, and energy sectors make sustainable water management a critical challenge—this is the focus of our programme.
We cover the key aspects of water technology, including freshwater extraction, wastewater treatment from households and industries, and the role of water as a renewable energy source. Our approach emphasises technologies prevalent in water-rich countries and addresses issues such as seawater desalination, sanitation solutions for developing nations, and strategies to prevent water-related conflicts.
The Water Technology programme offers you a great deal of flexibility:
You can choose the Master's programme, which includes an integrated internship starting after the first year of study (4 semesters in total, 120 CP).
If you have a degree in a non-engineering field, you can enter the Master's programme after completing a one-semester preliminary engineering course.
You can work up to 20 hours per week alongside your studies.
In the final two modules before your thesis, you can undertake a project abroad, collaborate with a company, and establish valuable professional contacts.
The Water Technology programme at SRH University opens many career opportunities in a future-oriented field. Graduates can work as engineers in water management, environmental consultants, or project managers. Technical understanding, analytical skills, project management, strong communication skills, and teamwork are necessary. An awareness of sustainability is particularly relevant.
Innovative water treatment technologies can be developed in research and development, while plant managers in wastewater treatment plants are responsible for sustainable processes. Jobs in sales, marketing or teaching are also possible. Graduates can also work in international organisations, NGOs or political consulting, where intercultural skills are essential.
With the high demand for water technology specialists, the SRH University degree programme offers a solid foundation for a successful career in this growing sector.
In addition to the competences in water technology, you will acquire essential skills in business management and international work. To this end, you will learn and practise management techniques and strengthen your language and intercultural skills.
Upon graduation, you can gain a professional foothold in these areas, among others:
National and international water suppliers
Medium-sized and global companies in the water industry
Research institutions
Completing the Master's programme also entitles you to study for a doctorate.
previous slide
next slide
11.12.2024
Join us for the last workshop of the STREAM project, where we'll show how we've engaged local communities in Germany, Austria, Hungary and Serbia to raise awareness about water pollution and the Danube's unique soundscape.
SRH University Campus Heidelberg
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
17.12.2024
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
21.01.2025
Join us for an info session on Masters in Applied Data Science and Analytics! Discover how our program equips you with hands-on skills to tackle real-world data challenges and advance your career.
Online via Teams
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
Our Master's programme in
Water Technology
at SRH University Heidelberg offers a dynamic and practical curriculum tailored for future professionals aiming to excel in international water management and engineering. The programme covers a broad range of topics, including advanced water treatment techniques, sustainable resource management, and innovative wastewater treatment and desalination technologies.
You will also develop expertise in environmental impact assessment and explore water's potential as a renewable energy source, preparing you for leadership roles in international organisations. Interdisciplinary approaches and practical projects will equip you to address global water challenges in industries, research institutions, and governmental agencies.
We are happy to provide additional information, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE Principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 6221 6799-799
contact me
Lecturer
Professor
Professor
Professor
Research Associate
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
Citizenship | EU/EEA, including Western Balkans, Switzerland and Ukraine: €770 / month
Citizenship | non-EU/EEA: €6,450 / semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once.
Except for any placement, aptitude or equivalency tests, no separate examination fees or similar are charged, not even for repeat examinations. So, you'll have maximum cost transparency during your studies.
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Master's programme in Water Technology,
you will need to provide
Bachelor's degree
engineering
or Bachelor's degree in another discipline + preparatory course
Secondary School Certificate
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Startklar days and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: