Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/web-development/d/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Science | Berlin
In the B.Sc. Web Development programme, you will focus on UX design, web development, IOT, coding and software engineering for sustainable IT solutions. This opens up a wide range of opportunities for you as a UI/UX Design Expert, Full Stack or Web Developer.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
full time
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semesters/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
In the B.Sc. Web Development programme you will learn to conceptualise, design and develop real, digital products and services. Interaction design, UX design, usability engineering, script languages, business informatics and social media are on the curriculum as well as hardware programming, communication strategy and agile project management. Based on this, you will develop digital experiences, online platforms, hardware projects, virtual spaces and games.
The focus is exclusively on sustainable projects that work with large companies, NGOs, institutes, universities or start-ups to achieve sustainable development for society as a whole.
You will learn how to coordinate real projects, work in teams with content experts, communication designers and marketing experts, advise clients, derive concepts from ideas and finally design and technically implement them. Our students work on assignments for clients from all over the world during their studies - an ideal preparation for the start of a professional career.
In media agencies, medium-size and international enterprises various doors are open, for example to software developers, consultants, game designers, app developers. You will also be well prepared for the leap into self-employment.
With the completion of your studies you have what it takes to be a:
UI/UX Design Expert
Full Stack Developer
Frontend Designer
Service Design Thinking Expert
Web Developer
IOT Hardware-Based Coding Expert
Software Engineer
Content Manager
Project Manager Digital
Game Developer / Game Designer
Social Media Engineer
E-Learning Expert
In addition, you have access to numerous postgraduate and Master's programmes in Germany and abroad.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
previous slide
next slide
02.12.2024
Join us for a live online Q&A session with our study advisors. We will answer your questions about study programmes, provide academic guidance, and answer general enquiries.
Anmeldung/Registration
04.12.2024
Meet our study advisors online and learn how our application system works and which documents and proofs you need to provide.
Anmeldung/Registration
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
Your modules
The Bachelor's in
Web Development
at SRH University combines technical knowledge with creative design and user-centred development. Students acquire fundamentals in programming, UX/UI design, software development and databases. Practical projects and co-operations provide hands-on experience in areas such as gamification, cross-platform development and content management systems.
Subjects such as content marketing and business intelligence supplement the technical knowledge with economic aspects. An internship and the Bachelor's thesis round off the study programme and prepare graduates for positions in web development or UX/UI design.
We will be happy to send you further information material, including the complete curriculum .
Order your information material
Here you will find a short overview of the study programme to become a sought-after developer. Prof. Gabor Kovacs is the head of the programme and gives an overview of the career prospects, the concept of the programme and the requirements that you should bring with you.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 201
Professor
Professor
Professor
Professor
Instructional Design
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 929
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
Bachelor's programme in Web Development
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: