Link: https://www.srh-university.de/en/bachelor/web-development-dual/d/

Bachelor
Bachelor of Science | Berlin
Plan, design and develop sustainable digital products in a corporate context - in the dual study programme B.Sc. Web Development you have the opportunity to complete the entire programme as a practice-integrated dual study programme.
Request information
Apply now
Apply
Key facts
Programme content
Career
Smart financing
All Facts at a glance
Degree:
Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
Start:
1st october
Model:
dual
Language:
English
ECTS:
210
Info:
accredited
Duration:
7 semester/3.5 years
Location:
Berlin
Costs:
from €690 per month
Corporate Partner
You need a partner company before starting your degree.
In the B.Sc. Web Development programme, you learn to conceptualise, design and develop real, digital products and services. Interaction design, UX design, usability engineering, scripting languages, business informatics and social media are just as much part of the curriculum as hardware programming, communication strategy and agile project management. Based on these modules, you develop digital experiences, online platforms, hardware projects, virtual spaces and games.
The focus is exclusively on sustainable projects that have a sustainable impact across society with large companies, NGOs, institutes, universities or start-ups.
You learn how to coordinate real projects, work in teams with content experts, communication designers and marketing experts, advise clients, derive concepts from ideas and finally design and technically implement them. Our students already work on assignments for clients from all over the world during their studies - an ideal preparation for a professional career start.
You already have previous experience, e.g. as a trained media designer, thanks to previous university studies or you work as a freelance web developer or designer? Or are you already enrolled in the full-time B.Sc. Development programme at the Berlin School of Design and Communication? Then you have the opportunity to switch to the dual programme. In the specific dual modules you acquire in-depth knowledge and credits for your work in your partner company (approx. 2.5 days per week, 5 ECTS per semester).
You can find career opportunities in media agencies or medium-sized and international companies as a software developer, consultant, game designer or app developer. You are also well equipped to start your own company or work as a freelancer.
After finishing your studies, you have what it takes to become a:
UI/UX Design Expert
Full Stack Developer
Frontend Designer
Service Design Thinking Expert
Web Developer
IOT Hardware-Based Coding Expert
Software Engineer
Content Manager
Project Manager Digital
Game Developer / Game Designer
Social Media Engineer
E-Learning Expert
In addition, you have access to numerous postgraduate and master's degree programmes in Germany and abroad.
Your path to the future
Start your application now
Your modules
The dual study programme in
Web Development
combines theory with practical work. Each semester, you will spend several days a week working with in your partner company, allowing you to apply your knowledge directly.
You will learn the basics of programming, computer architecture and UX/UI design. Practical projects in cooperation with companies prepare you for the professional world. Topics such as databases, networks, SEO and content marketing deepen your specialist knowledge.
Modules in software engineering, service design and cross-platform applications will prepare you for the digital future. The Bachelor's thesis and internship round off the programme.
We will be happy to send you further information material, including the complete curriculum.
Order your information material
Here you will find a short overview of the study programme to become a sought-after developer. Prof. Gabor Kovacs is the head of the programme and gives an overview of the career prospects, the concept of the programme and the requirements that you should bring with you.
By playing this video, the provider may store personal data such as your IP address.
Our CORE principle
Today, soft and social skills are crucial in addition to hard skills and expertise. That's why
SRH University
's innovative, successful, and award-winning
CORE principle
promotes independent and active learning so that you can apply your knowledge directly to projects and your future career—for a clear competitive advantage.
Learn more about CORE
There are different models for dual study programmes in Germany: our B.Sc. Web Development | dual is a so-called "practice-integrated dual study programme".
As a student, you can replace certain modules during your lecture period with practical work for a company. This gives you the opportunity to work for up to 18.5 hours per week and earn ECTS credit points for your studies at the same time!
You need a company based in the digital media industry that offers you a job in the field of web development. You document your activities in a written practical report. From a legal perspective, you retain the status of a full-time student, which is why the B.Sc. Web Development | dual is also suitable for non-EU citizens.
You negotiate the terms of your employment contract directly with the company. The salary level is not related to our tuition fees - these are independently transferred to SRH University.
Our students often start the B.Sc. Web Development course full-time and later switch to the dual study model, e.g. in the 3rd or 4th semester, please note that the search for partner companies is usually done by you independently.
We are happy to provide support by individual arrangement, e.g. through letters of recommendation from professors, provided that you have demonstrated active participation in your studies and good academic performance as a student in the first semesters.
previous slide
next slide
10.12.2024
Get to know our creative Bachelor's degree programmes in Berlin, Heidelberg, Leipzig and Hamburg! Exciting trial lectures with our professors await you.
Anmeldung/Registration
11.12.2024
Event in German and English | Learn more about funding opportunities for EU and non-EU students.
Anmeldung/Registration
18.12.2024
Discover the benefits of studying in Germany from the comfort of your own home in our upcoming webinar!
Registration
previous slide
next slide
Head of Study Programme
Study advisor
[email protected]
+49 30 515650 201
Professor
Professor
As a state-recognised private university, SRH University is financed by tuition fees. The fees go towards equipping our campuses, providing services for our students, and ensuring quality assurance. This way, we ensure you receive the best possible education under optimal study conditions.
Tuition fees
EU/EEA citizenship, including Switzerland, Western Balkans and Ukraine: €690 per month
Non-EU/EEA citizenship: €4,725 per semester
The monthly/semester tuition fees remain the same for the entire duration of the study programme. A one-off enrolment fee of €750 (EU/EEA) or €1000 (non-EU/EEA) is to be paid once
Goal-oriented studies require good organisational skills and solid financial planning on how to pay rent, living costs, and tuition fees. Various financing options, such as educational loans or scholarship programmes, are available for students.
We have summarised all financing options for you.
About your financing options
You can apply at any time via our
online portal
. We will then check your application documents and invite you to a personal interview.
To apply for the
dual Bachelor's programme in Web Development
, you will need to provide
General higher education entrance qualification (Abitur) or university of applied sciences entrance qualification (Fachhochschulreife)
Proof of English language proficiency
Curriculum Vitae with a current passport photo
Copy of your identity card or passport
You will need a partner company before you start your studies - we are happy to assist you in finding one. If you are unable to find a partner company before the 1st semester, you can also always start in the
full-time programme
and switch to the dual programme later.
After applying and being admitted to the university,
you can change to the dual programme at the beginning of each semester
or, depending on your level of prior knowledge, you can already commence your studies in the dual programme. The partner companies select suitable candidates independently of the university and sign an employment contract (usually with 18.5 hours per week) with them. You can also suggest new partner companies for this purpose. We advise the partner companies to provide financial support for the students working for them. This means that either the tuition fees are paid by the company or that you receive a training salary.
More information about the admission requirements
Apply now!
We look forward to welcoming you to SRH University. This is what our application process looks like:
You submit your online application via the SRH application portal
If you meet the admission requirements, we will invite you to a personal/phone interview
If the interview is successful, you will receive an acceptance letter and the study contract
You sign the study contract and send it back to us
You pay the enrolment fee
You will receive your letter of admission
You take part in our Welcome Week and then you are good to go!
Do you still have questions?
Share: